<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ANAGAG LTD.
</assignee>

<inventors>
PECHERSKY, IGOR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72426536
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRIVACY-PRESERVING DATA COLLECTING
</title>

<abstract>
A method, system and product including communicating a first report associated with a first temporary identifier of a user device; upon receiving the first report from the user device, storing the first report with the first temporary identifier; communicating a message comprising a second temporary identifier of the user device; communicating a second report that is associated with the second temporary identifier of the user device, wherein the second report is not associated with the first temporary identifier; upon receiving from the user device a second report, storing the second report with the second temporary identifier, whereby the first report cannot be directly matched with the second report based on respective identifiers thereof.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method comprising:
obtaining first sensitive information from one or more sensors of a user device, wherein the first sensitive information comprises information that is sensitive 5 for a user of the user device, wherein the user device is temporarily identified by a first temporary identifier;
sending a first report of the first sensitive information to the server, wherein the first report is associated with the first temporary identifier of the user device;
after sending the first report, communicating a message between the user 10 device and the server, wherein the message comprises a second temporary identifier of the user device;
obtaining second sensitive information from the one or more sensors of the user device; and
sending a second report of the second sensitive information to the server, 15 wherein the second report is associated with the second temporary identifier of the user device, wherein the second report is not associated with the first temporary identifier, whereby a first analysis of user behavior associated with the first temporary identifier is enabled, and a second analysis of user behavior associated with the second temporary identifier is enabled, while the first and second analyses 20 are not determined to be associated with a same user.
2. The method of Claim 1 comprising: generating the first temporary identifier at the user device and transmitting a second message from the user device to the server, wherein the second message comprises a request to assign the first temporary identifier to the user device for a first period of time. 25
3. The method of Claim 2, wherein said generating the first temporary identifier comprises generating a first random value, wherein the second temporary identifier is generated by generating a second random value.
4. The method of Claim 1 comprising identifying an expiration event of the first temporary identifier based on at least one of: a defined time length after which each 30 time period is to be terminated, a defined time length after which the first temporary identifier is to be terminated, a number of reports using the first temporary identifier that were sent to the server, and a direct instruction from the user of the user device to switch the first temporary identifier, wherein said communicating the message is performed in response to the expiration event. 5
5. The method of Claim 1 comprising receiving the first temporary identifier from the server via a second message prior to said sending the first report, and generating the first report to include an indication of the first temporary identifier.
6. The method of Claim 1, wherein the message comprises an indication that the first temporary identifier is to be replaced with the second temporary identifier. 10
7. The method of Claim 1, wherein the first sensitive information comprises location
information obtained from the one or more sensors of the user device at a first location, and the second sensitive information comprises location information obtained from the one or more sensors of the user device at a second location.
8. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage 15 medium retaining program instructions, which program instructions when read by a processor, cause the processor to perform:
obtaining first sensitive information from one or more sensors of a user device, wherein the first sensitive information comprises information that is sensitive for a user of the user device, wherein the user device is temporarily identified by a 20 first temporary identifier;
sending a first report of the first sensitive information to the server, wherein the first report is associated with the first temporary identifier of the user device;
after sending the first report, communicating a message between the user device and the server, wherein the message comprises a second temporary identifier 25 of the user device;
obtaining second sensitive information from the one or more sensors of the user device; and
sending a second report of the second sensitive information to the server, wherein the second report is associated with the second temporary identifier of the 30 user device, wherein the second report is not associated with the first temporary identifier, whereby a first analysis of user behavior associated with the first temporary identifier is enabled, and a second analysis of user behavior associated with the second temporary identifier is enabled, while the first and second analyses are not determined to be associated with a same user. 5
9. The computer program product of Claim 8, wherein the instructions, when read by the processor, cause the processor to generate the first temporary identifier at the user device and transmit a second message from the user device to the server, wherein the second message comprises a request to assign the first temporary identifier to the user device for a first period of time. 10
10. The computer program product of Claim 9, wherein said generating the first temporary identifier comprises generating a first random value, wherein the second temporary identifier is generated by generating a second random value.
11. The computer program product of Claim 8, wherein the instructions, when read by the processor, cause the processor to identify an expiration event of the first 15 temporary identifier based on at least one of: a defined time length after which each time period is to be terminated, a defined time length after which the first temporary identifier is to be terminated, a number of reports using the first temporary identifier that were sent to the server, and a direct instruction from the user of the user device to switch the first temporary identifier, wherein said communicating the message is 20 performed in response to the expiration event.
12. The computer program product of Claim 8, wherein the instructions, when read by the processor, cause the processor to receive the first temporary identifier from the server via a second message prior to said sending the first report, and generate the first report to include an indication of the first temporary identifier. 25
13. The computer program product of Claim 8, wherein the message comprises an
indication that the first temporary identifier is to be replaced with the second temporary identifier.
14. The computer program product of Claim 8, wherein the first sensitive information comprises location information obtained from the one or more sensors of the user device at a first location, and the second sensitive information comprises location information obtained from the one or more sensors of the user device at a second location. 5
15. A method comprising:
upon receiving a first report of sensitive information associated with a first temporary identifier, storing the first report with the first temporary identifier, wherein the first temporary identifier is utilized to temporarily identify a user device; after receiving the first report, communicating a message between the user 10 device and the server, wherein the message comprises the first temporary identifier and a second temporary identifier of the user device;
upon receiving from the user device a second report of sensitive information associated with the second temporary identifier, storing the second report with the second temporary identifier, whereby the first report cannot be directly matched with 15 the second report based on respective identifiers thereof; and
analyzing stored reports, wherein said analyzing comprises performing an analysis of user behavior based on retained reports, wherein the analysis of user behavior concludes a first user behavior associated with the first temporary identifier and a second user behavior associated with the second temporary identifier, whereby 20 potentially determining different user behavior for a same user.
16. The method of Claim 15, wherein the analysis of user behavior differentiates reports associated with the first temporary identifier from reports associated with the second temporary identifier in a same manner that the analysis of user behavior differentiates reports associated with the first temporary identifier from reports 25 associated with a third temporary identifier, wherein the third temporary identifier is an identifier of a second user device different than the user device.
17. The method of Claim 15, wherein upon assigning the first temporary identifier to
identify the first user device, adding the first temporary identifier to a list of active temporary identifiers, wherein said communicating the message comprises 30 modifying the list of active temporary identifiers based on identifying that the second temporary identifier is not located in the list of active temporary identifiers of the server, wherein said modifying comprises adding the second temporary identifier to the list of active temporary identifiers and removing the first temporary identifier from the list of active temporary identifiers. 5
18. The method of Claim 17 further comprising tracking malicious activity by:
determining that the first temporary identifier is associated with malicious activity based on reports associated with the first temporary identifier, and
marking the first temporary identifier as malicious,
wherein said modifying the list of active temporary identifiers comprises 10 marking the second temporary identifier as malicious.
19. The method of Claim 17, wherein said modifying the list of active temporary identifiers is performed periodically, or upon reaching a maximal threshold of requests to replace temporary identifiers.
20. The method of Claim 15, wherein the first temporary identifier is determined to be 15 associated with malicious activity based on at least one of:
contradictory information in reports associated with the first temporary identifier;
an abnormal quantity of reports associated with the first temporary identifier within a timeframe; and 20 an inconsistency of reports associated with the first temporary identifier.
21. The method of Claim 15, wherein the analysis of user behavior comprises a reliability analysis, wherein the reliability analysis is configured to determine a reliability score for the first temporary identifier based on reports associated with the first temporary identifier, wherein in response to determining that a reliability score 25 of the first temporary identifier is below a threshold, marking the first temporary identifier with an unreliability indication in the list of active temporary identifiers.
22. The method of Claim 21 further comprising assigning to each report associated with
the first temporary identifier the unreliability indication, wherein said assigning is performed prior to said communicating the message between the user device and the server.
23. The method of Claim 15 comprising receiving a plurality of messages from a respective plurality of user devices, wherein each message of the plurality of messages comprises a request to change a temporary identifier of the respective user 5 device, wherein the method comprises inserting the plurality of messages in a queue and processing them at an end of a defined period.
24. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium retaining program instructions, which program instructions when read by a processor, cause the processor to perform: 10 upon receiving a first report of sensitive information associated with a first temporary identifier, storing the first report with the first temporary identifier, wherein the first temporary identifier is utilized to temporarily identify a user device; after receiving the first report, communicating a message between the user device and the server, wherein the message comprises the first temporary identifier 15 and a second temporary identifier of the user device;
upon receiving from the user device a second report of sensitive information associated with the second temporary identifier, storing the second report with the second temporary identifier, whereby the first report cannot be directly matched with the second report based on respective identifiers thereof; and 20 analyzing stored reports, wherein said analyzing comprises performing an analysis of user behavior based on retained reports, wherein the analysis of user behavior concludes a first user behavior associated with the first temporary identifier and a second user behavior associated with the second temporary identifier, whereby potentially determining different user behavior for a same user. 25
25. The computer program product of Claim 24, wherein the analysis of user behavior differentiates reports associated with the first temporary identifier from reports associated with the second temporary identifier in a same manner that the analysis of user behavior differentiates reports associated with the first temporary identifier from reports associated with a third temporary identifier, wherein the third temporary identifier is an identifier of a second user device different than the user device.
26. The computer program product of Claim 24, wherein the instructions, when read by the processor, cause the processor to, upon assigning the first temporary identifier to identify the first user device, add the first temporary identifier to a list of active 5 temporary identifiers, wherein said communicating the message comprises modifying the list of active temporary identifiers based on identifying that the second temporary identifier is not located in the list of active temporary identifiers of the server, wherein said modifying comprises adding the second temporary identifier to the list of active temporary identifiers and removing the first temporary identifier 10 from the list of active temporary identifiers.
27. The computer program product of Claim 26, wherein the instructions, when read by the processor, cause the processor to track malicious activity by:
determining that the first temporary identifier is associated with malicious activity based on reports associated with the first temporary identifier, and 15 marking the first temporary identifier as malicious,
wherein said modifying the list of active temporary identifiers comprises marking the second temporary identifier as malicious.
28. The computer program product of Claim 26, wherein said modifying the list of active temporary identifiers is performed periodically, or upon reaching a maximal 20 threshold of requests to replace temporary identifiers.
29. The computer program product of Claim 24, wherein the first temporary identifier is determined to be associated with malicious activity based on at least one of:
contradictory information in reports associated with the first temporary identifier; 25 an abnormal quantity of reports associated with the first temporary identifier within a timeframe; and
an inconsistency of reports associated with the first temporary identifier.
30. The computer program product of Claim 24, wherein the analysis of user behavior comprises a reliability analysis, wherein the reliability analysis is configured to determine a reliability score for the first temporary identifier based on reports associated with the first temporary identifier, wherein in response to determining that a reliability score of the first temporary identifier is below a threshold, marking the 5 first temporary identifier with an unreliability indication in the list of active temporary identifiers.
31. The computer program product of Claim 30, wherein the instructions, when read by the processor, cause the processor to assign to each report associated with the first temporary identifier the unreliability indication, wherein said assigning is performed 10 prior to said communicating the message between the user device and the server.
32. The computer program product of Claim 24, wherein the instructions, when read by the processor, cause the processor to receive a plurality of messages from a respective plurality of user devices, wherein each message of the plurality of messages comprises a request to change a temporary identifier of the respective user 15 device, wherein the instructions, when read by the processor, cause the processor to insert the plurality of messages in a queue and process them at an end of a defined period.
33. A system comprising:
a server coupled to a database, wherein the database retaining reports of 20 sensitive information, wherein each report is associated with an identifier of a source of the report;
a plurality of user devices configured to transmit reports of sensitive information to the server, wherein each device of the plurality of user devices is uniquely identified at each point in time using a temporary identifier, wherein each 25 device of the plurality of user devices is identified by at least two different temporary identifiers at two different timeframes; and
wherein the system is configured to preserve privacy of users of the plurality of user devices by preventing ability to group all sensitive information of a user device over time, while enabling grouping of reports originating from the same user device over time.
34. The system of Claim 33, wherein said server is configured to retain a list of active temporary identifiers, wherein said server is configured to enable a replacement of a first temporary identifier of a user device by a second temporary identifier, wherein 5 said server is configured to avoid retaining information connecting between the first temporary identifier and the second temporary identifier, whereby preventing ability to group sensitive information associated with the first temporary identifier with sensitive information associated with the second temporary identifier.
35. The system of Claim 34, wherein each temporary identifier in the list of active 10 temporary identifiers is matched with a permanent identifier of the user device, wherein the server is configured to avoid retaining permanent identifiers matching temporary identifiers that are excluded from the list of active temporary identifiers, whereby preventing analysis of a history of a specific user based on a permanent identifier thereof. 15
36. The system of Claim 33, wherein said server is configured to determine a score of each user device based on reports received therefrom and associated with a same temporary identifier.
37. The system of Claim 33, wherein upon replacing a first temporary identifier by a second temporary identifier, assigning a score of the first temporary identifier to be a 20 score of the second temporary identifier.
25
</claims>
</document>
