<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S17/10,G01S17/18,G01S17/36,G01S17/931,G01S7/48,G01S7/491,G01S7/4915,G01S7/497
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
COGAN, TIMOTHY
HEGDE, PRADEEP
NELSON, DOUG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68165552
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HIGH RESOLUTION TIME-OF-FLIGHT MEASUREMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
Modulated light is generated using a light source of a sensor module. Using a photodetector of the sensor module, an intensity of modulated light reflected from an object towards the photo detector is measured over a period of time. An electronic control device bins the measured intensity of the reflected modulated light according to a plurality of temporal bins, determines a first temporal bin having the greatest intensity among the plurality of temporal bins, and estimates a distance between the sensor module and the object based on a first temporal bin, and one or more additional temporal bins of the plurality of temporal bins.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising :
generating modulated light using a light source of a sensor module;
measuring, using a photodetector of the sensor module, an intensity of modulated light reflected from an object towards the photodetector over a period of time;
binning, using an electronic control device, the measured intensity of the reflected modulated light according to a plurality of temporal bins;
determining, using the electronic control device, a first temporal bin having the greatest intensity among the plurality of temporal bins; and
estimating, using the electronic control device, a distance between the sensor module and the object based on a first temporal bin, and one or more additional temporal bins of the plurality of temporal bins.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein each temporal bin corresponds to a respective different distance between the sensor module and the object.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein estimating the distance between the sensor module and the object comprises determining a distance offset with respect to the distance corresponding to the first temporal bin.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the distance offset is less than a difference between the distance corresponding to the first temporal bin, and the distance
corresponding to a second temporal bin temporally adjacent to the first temporal bin.
5. The method of any preceding claim, wherein estimating the distance between the sensor module and the object comprises: determining an intensity of a second temporal bin temporally adjacent to the first temporal bin.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein estimating the distance between the sensor module and the object comprises:
determining an intensity of a third temporal bin temporally adjacent to the first temporal bin, wherein the second temporal bin is different from the third temporal bin.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the first temporal bin corresponds to a first time interval of the period of time,
wherein the second temporal bin corresponds to a second time interval of the period of time prior to the first time interval, and
wherein the third temporal bin corresponds to a third time interval of the period of time subsequent to the first time interval.
8. The method of claim 6 or 7, wherein estimating the distance between the sensor module and the object comprises:
determining a measurement parameter based on an intensity of the first temporal bin, the intensity of the second temporal bin, and the intensity of the third temporal bin, obtaining one or more data items indicating a relationship between a plurality of sample values of the measurement parameter and a plurality of corresponding sample distance offsets, and
determining the distance between the sensor module and the object based on the measurement parameter and the relationship.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the measurement parameter is equal to (c— d)/(b— min(c, a),
wherein a is the intensity of the second temporal bin, b is the intensity of the first temporal bin, and c is the intensity of the third temporal bin.
10. The method of claim 8 or 9, wherein the relationship between the plurality of sample values of the measurement parameter and the plurality of corresponding sample distance offsets is a monotonic relationship.
11. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the sensor module comprises a time of flight sensor module.
12. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the light source comprises a laser emitter.
13. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the photodetector comprises a photodiode.
14. A system comprising :
a sensor module comprising a light source and a photodetector; and
an electronic control device,
wherein the sensor module is operable to:
generate modulated light using the light source, and
measure, using the photo detector, an intensity of modulated light reflected from an object towards the photodetector over a period of time, and
wherein the electronic control device is operable to:
bin the measured intensity of the reflected modulated light according to a plurality of temporal bins,
determine a first temporal bin having the greatest intensity among the plurality of temporal bins, and
estimate a distance between the sensor module and the object based on a first temporal bin, and one or more additional temporal bins of the plurality of temporal bins.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein each temporal bin corresponds to a respective different distance between the sensor module and the object.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the electronic control device's estimating the distance between the sensor module and the object comprises determining a distance offset with respect to the distance corresponding to the first temporal bin.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the distance offset is less than a difference between the distance corresponding to the first temporal bin, and the distance
corresponding to a second temporal bin temporally adjacent to the first temporal bin.
18. The system of any one of claims 14 to 17, wherein the electronic control device's estimating the distance between the sensor module and the object comprises:
determining an intensity of a second temporal bin temporally adjacent to the first temporal bin.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the electronic control device's estimating the distance between the sensor module and the object comprises:
determining an intensity of a third temporal bin temporally adjacent to the first temporal bin, wherein the second temporal bin is different from the third temporal bin.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the first temporal bin corresponds to a first time interval of the period of time,
wherein the second temporal bin corresponds to a second time interval of the period of time prior to the first time interval, and
wherein the third temporal bin corresponds to a third time interval of the period of time subsequent to the first time interval.
21. The system of claim 19 or 20, wherein the electronic control device's estimating the distance between the sensor module and the object comprises: determining a measurement parameter based on an intensity of the first temporal bin, the intensity of the second temporal bin, and the intensity of the third temporal bin, obtaining one or more data items indicating a relationship between a plurality of sample values of the measurement parameter and a plurality of corresponding sample distance offsets, and
determining the distance between the sensor module and the object based on the measurement parameter and the relationship.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the measurement parameter is equal to (c— d)/(b— min(c, a),
wherein a is the intensity of the second temporal bin, b is the intensity of the first temporal bin, and c is the intensity of the third temporal bin.
23. The system of claim 21 or 22, wherein the relationship between the plurality of sample values of the measurement parameter and the plurality of corresponding sample distance offset is a monotonic relationship.
24. The system of any one of claims 14 to 23, wherein the sensor module comprises a time of flight sensor module.
25. The system of any one of claims 14 to 24, wherein the light source comprises a laser emitter.
26. The system of any one of claims 14 to 25, wherein the photodetector comprises a photodiode.
27. A host device comprising a system according to any one of claims 14 to 26, wherein the host device is operable to use data obtained by the sensor of the system for one or more functions executed by the host device.
28. A method comprising:
positioning an object at each of a plurality of distances from a sensor module; generating, for each distance, a corresponding set of measurements, wherein generating each set of measurements comprises:
generating modulated light using a light source of the sensor module, measuring, using a photodetector of the sensor module, an intensity of modulated light reflected from an object towards the photodetector over a period of time, and
binning, using an electronic control device, the measured intensity of the reflected modulated light according to a plurality of temporal bins; and determining, based on the sets of measurement, a first signal waveform representing a physical structure of the object.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein determining the first signal waveform comprises:
determining, for each temporal bin, a second signal waveform representing an intensity of that temporal bin with respect to each of the distances of the plurality of distances.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein determining the first signal waveform comprises:
normalizing an intensity of at least one second signal waveform.
31. The method of any one of claims 28 to 30, wherein determining the first signal waveform comprises:
aligning the second signal waveforms with one another.
32. The method of any one of claims 28 to 31 , wherein determining the first signal waveform comprises: averaging the second signal waveforms to obtain an averaged second signal waveform.
33. The method of any one of claims 28 to 32, wherein determining the first signal waveform comprises:
deconvolving the averaged second signal waveform to obtain the first signal waveform.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein deconvolving the averaged second signal waveform comprises performing a Wiener deconvolution with respect to the averaged second signal waveform.
35. The method of any one of claims 28 to 34, wherein the physical structure is at least one of a size or a shape of the object.
36. The method of any one of claims 28 to 35, wherein the sensor module comprises a time of flight sensor module.
37. The method of any one of claims 28 to 36, wherein the light source comprises a laser emitter.
38. The method of any one of claims 28 to 37, wherein the photodetector comprises a photodiode.
39. A system comprising :
a sensor module comprising a light source and a photodetector; and
an electronic control device,
wherein the sensor module is operable, with respect to an object positioned at each of a plurality of distances from the sensor module, to generate, for each distance, a corresponding set of measurements, wherein generating each set of measurements comprises:
generating modulated light using the light source, and
measuring, using the photodetector, an intensity of modulated light reflected from an object towards the photodetector over a period of time, and wherein the electronic control device is operable to:
bin the measured intensity of the reflected modulated light according to a plurality of temporal bins, and
determine, based on the sets of measurement, a first signal waveform representing a physical structure of the object.
40. The system of claim 39, wherein the electronic control device's determining the first signal waveform comprises:
determining, for each temporal bin, a second signal waveform representing an intensity of that temporal bin with respect to each of the distances of the plurality of distances.
41. The system of claim 39 or 40, wherein the electronic control device's determining the first signal waveform comprises:
normalizing an intensity of at least one second signal waveform.
42. The system of claim 39, 40 or 41, wherein the electronic control device's determining the first signal waveform comprises:
aligning the second signal waveforms with one another.
43. The system of any one of claims 39 to 42, wherein the electronic control device's determining the first signal waveform comprises:
averaging the second signal waveforms to obtain an averaged second signal waveform.
44. The system any one of claims 39 to 43, wherein the electronic control device's determining the first signal waveform comprises:
deconvolving the averaged second signal waveform to obtain the first signal waveform.
45. The system of claim 44, wherein the electronic control device's deconvolving the averaged second signal waveform comprises performing a Wiener deconvolution with respect to the averaged second signal waveform.
46. The system of any one of claims 39 to 45, wherein the physical structure is at least one of a size or a shape of the object.
47. The system of any one of claims 39 to 46, wherein the sensor module comprises a time of flight sensor module.
48. The system of any one of claims 39 to 47, wherein the light source comprises a laser emitter.
49. The system of any one of claims 39 to 48, wherein the photodetector comprises a photodiode.
50. A host device comprising a system according to any one of claims 39 to 49, wherein the host device is operable to use data obtained by the sensor of the system for one or more functions executed by the host device.
</claims>
</document>
