<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
PODDAR ASHWARYA
DINERSTEIN YOSEF
TURGMAN AMI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70471099
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SMART CONTRACT GENERATION AND EXECUTION SYSTEM WITH BUILT-IN MEDIATOR SELECTION AND ENFORCEMENT TOOLS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments described herein are configured to generate a smart contract deployed to a distributed ledger platform. In particular, a first party and a second party negotiate the terms of an engagement, jointly choose a mediator from those available on a social networking platform, and choose a smart contract template, and a user interface is thereafter presented to the parties for inclusion of negotiable elements. Upon agreement, a smart contract is thereafter generated and deployed to a smart contract platform such as, for example, a blockchain. Embodiments permit escrow of funds to the smart contract platform. Embodiments of the smart contract enable the parties to indicate completion or take other actions with respect to the engagement, or to initiate a dispute in which case, a chosen mediator is thereafter enabled by the smart contract to mediate the dispute through one or more smart contract actions made available to the mediator.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising:
accepting a selection of a smart contract template from a first party or a second party, the first and second party engaging in a transaction and determining the selected smart contract template based at least in part on transaction terms negotiated between the first and second party;
accepting a selected mediator from the first and second party, the selected mediator being jointly chosen by the first and second party;
generating a smart contract based at least in part on the selected smart contract template and including smart contract terms based at least in part on the transaction terms, the smart contract terms including designation of the selected mediator for resolution of disputes arising under the smart contract, the smart contract enabling one or more smart contract actions to be invoked by one or more of the first party, the second party and the selected mediator;
instantiating the smart contract in conjunction with a distributed ledger;
causing the smart contract to be presented to the first and second party; and receiving acceptance of the smart contract by the first and second party.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising enforcing the smart contract, the enforcing the smart contract comprising:
enabling the first party and the second party to initiate a dispute process, wherein the dispute process enables the selected mediator to invoke one or more of the one or more smart contract actions, the invocation reflecting a resolution determined by the selected mediator.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein enforcing the smart contract further comprises: transmitting to the mediator at least a portion of cryptocurrency held in escrow pursuant to the terms of the smart contract, the transmitting commencing upon invocation by the selected mediator of at least one of the one or more smart contract actions.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more smart contract actions enable the mediator to perform one or more of the following actions: rescind the contract; release some or all the escrowed cryptocurrency to the first party; release some or all of the escrowed cryptocurrency to the second party; or actions agreed upon by the first party and the second party prior to formation of the smart contract.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected mediator is chosen via a social network including a plurality of mediators.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
capturing communications between at least the first and the second party to identify an engagement between the first party and the second party;
identifying the transaction terms from the captured communications, the transaction terms including mediation terms; and
causing the smart contract template to be presented to the first party and/or the second party based at least in part on the identified transaction terms.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein first party and the second party engage via a social network, and the captured communications comprise one or more of: social network based communications, instant messages, text messages or email messages.
8. A smart contract generation system, comprising:
one or more processors and one or more memory devices connected thereto, the one or more memory devices storing computer program logic for execution by the one or more processors, the computer program logic configured to:
accept a selection of a smart contract template from a first party or a second party, the first and second party engaging in a transaction and determining the selected smart contract template based at least in part on transaction terms negotiated between the first and second party;
accept a selected mediator from the first and second party, the selected mediator being jointly chosen by the first and second party;
generate a smart contract based at least in part on the selected smart contract template and including smart contract terms based at least in part on the transaction terms, the smart contract terms including designation of the selected mediator for resolution of disputes arising under the smart contract, the smart contract enabling one or more smart contract actions to be invoked by one or more of the first party, the second party and the selected mediator;
instantiate the smart contract in conjunction with a distributed ledger;
cause the smart contract to be presented to the first and second party; and receive acceptance of the smart contract by the first and second party.
9. The smart contract generation system of claim 8 wherein the computer program logic is further configured to enforce the smart contract by enabling the first party and the second party to initiate a dispute process, wherein the dispute process enables the selected mediator to invoke one or more of the one or more smart contract actions, the invocation reflecting a resolution determined by the selected mediator.
10. The smart contract generation system of claim 9 wherein the computer program logic is further configured to transmit to the mediator at least a portion of escrowed cryptocurrency held in escrow pursuant to the terms of the smart contract, the transmitting commencing upon invocation by the selected mediator of at least one of the one or more smart contract actions.
11. The smart contract generation system of claim 10 wherein the one or more smart contract actions enable the mediator to perform one or more of the following actions: rescind the contract; release some or all the escrowed cryptocurrency to the first party; release some or all of the escrowed cryptocurrency to the second party; or actions agreed upon by the first party and the second party prior to formation of the smart contract.
12. The smart contract generation system of claim 8, wherein the selected mediator is chosen via a social network including a plurality of mediators.
13. The smart contract generation system of claim 8 wherein the computer program logic is further configured to:
capture communications between at least the first and the second party to identify an engagement between the first party and the second party;
identify the transaction terms from the captured communications, the transaction terms including mediation terms; and
cause the smart contract template to be presented to the first party and/or the second party based at least in part on the identified transaction terms.
14. The smart contract generation system of claim 13 wherein first party and the second party engage via a social network, and the captured communications comprise one or more of: social network based communications, instant messages, text messages or email messages.
15. A computer program product comprising a computer-readable memory device having computer program logic recorded thereon, comprising:
computer program logic for enabling a processor to perform any of the methods of claims 1-7.
</claims>
</document>
