<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M1/14,A61M1/16,A61M1/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NXSTAGE MEDICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAMES JEROME
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73459485
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FLOW SYNCHRONIZATION DEVICES, METHODS AND SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A parameter for controlling an inlet pump speed in a hemofiltration system is derived from fitting a line to multiple data points of pressure versus pump speed. The pressure is measured in a channel connecting an inlet pump to an outlet pump. First, the inlet pump operates and the pressure is sampled until it is stabilized, then the inlet pump speed is increased and pressure is measured to obtain a data point. Subsequently the inlet pump speed is decreased and pressure is measured to obtain another data point. A line is fit through the data points to obtain the parameter.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method of controlling pumps in a hemofiltration system, comprising:
connecting an inlet pump, by a connecting channel, in series with an outlet pump;
pumping with the inlet pump and the outlet pump while measuring a pressure within the connecting channel between the inlet pump and the outlet pump;
sampling the pressure until it stabilizes within a predefined time interval;
varying the inlet pump speed until the inlet pump speed reaches a first value at which the pressure reaches a predefined target pressure;
changing the inlet pump speed to a second value greater than the first value and recording the pressure within the connecting channel corresponding to the second value;
changing the inlet pump speed to a third value smaller than the first value and recording the pressure within the connecting channel corresponding to the third value;
fitting a line to the predefined target pressure and the inlet pump speeds at least at the second value and the third value;
deriving a parameter from a slope of the fitted line; and
using the parameter to control the inlet pump speed.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the inlet pump is configured to pump replacement fluid into a blood line.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the outlet pump is configured to withdraw waste fluid from a hemofilter.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the predefined target pressure is obtained by measuring the pressure in a waste compartment when there is no flow across a membrane of the hemofilter and while blood is flowing such that a predefined average pressure exists on a blood side of the hemofilter.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the predefined average pressure on the blood side is measured at a selected blood pumping speed.
6. A method for controlling flow in a fluid circuit, comprising: in a hemofiltration machine with a controller that controls a net ultrafiltration by independently regulating a speed of a waste pump that draws fluid from a hemofilter and a speed of a replacement fluid pump that pumps replacement fluid into a patient blood line, using the controller to control the pumps to implement synchronization and treatment modes; in the synchronization mode, the controller detecting a target pressure at an inlet of the waste pump while flowing blood through the hemofilter and while blocking flow through the replacement fluid and waste pumps;
subsequently, in the synchronization mode, the controller connecting the replacement fluid pump and the waste pump directly in series and, while flowing replacement fluid between them and controlling the waste pump speed to establish a predetermined hemofiltration rate, controlling the replacement fluid pump speed to determine a synchronized replacement fluid pump speed that maintains the waste pump inlet pressure at said target pressure;
subsequently, in a treatment mode, the controller connecting the replacement fluid pump to pump replacement fluid into a blood circuit at said synchronized replacement pump speed.
7. A system for controlling flow in a fluid circuit, comprising:
a hemofiltration machine with fluid circuit having blood and non-blood portions, a controller waste, dialysate, and treatment fluid pumps connected to a hemodiafilter, a pressure sensor at an inlet of the waste pump, and flow controllers permitting selective interconnection of the blood and non-blood portions;
the controller controlling a net ultrafiltration, during a treatment mode, by
independently regulating a speed of the waste pump that draws fluid from a hemodiafilter, a speed of a replacement fluid pump that pumps replacement fluid into the blood portion, and a speed of the dialysate pump that pumps dialysate into the hemodiafilter;
the controller controlling the pumps to implement first and second synchronization modes and a treatment mode;
in the first synchronization mode, the controller detecting a target pressure at an inlet of the waste pump while flowing blood through the hemodiafilter and while blocking flow through the replacement fluid and waste pumps; subsequently, in the first synchronization mode, the controller pumping dialysate through the hemodiafilter using the dialysate and waste pumps and controlling the waste pump speed to establish a predetermined dialysate flow rate, controlling the dialysate pump speed to determine a synchronized dialysate pump speed that maintains the waste pump inlet pressure at said target pressure;
subsequently, in the second synchronization mode, the controller connecting the replacement fluid pump and the waste pump directly in series and, while flowing replacement fluid between them and controlling the waste pump speed establish a predetermined hemofiltration rate, controlling the replacement fluid pump speed to determine a synchronized replacement fluid pump speed that maintains the waste pump inlet pressure at said target pressure;
subsequently, in a treatment mode, the controller connecting the replacement fluid pump to pump replacement fluid into the blood portion at said synchronized replacement fluid pump speed, connect said dialysate pump to pump dialysate into said hemodiafilter at said synchronized dialysate pump speed, and to connect said waste pump to draw waste fluid from the hemodiafilter at a rate responsive to the predetermined dialysate flow rate and the predetermined hemofiltration rate.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein, in the treatment mode, the waste pump is controlled to draw waste fluid from the hemodiafilter at a rate equal to a sum of the predetermined dialysate flow rate and the predetermined hemofiltration rate.
9. A method for controlling flow in a fluid circuit, comprising:
in a treatment machine that controls a total volume of fluid flowing into or from a patient against the total volume of fluid drawn from the patient by regulating relative speeds of peristaltic pumps that flow fluid in a fluid circuit connected to the patient, implementing a priming mode in which priming fluid is pumped through the fluid circuit the priming mode including pumping fluid through the fluid pumps for a break-in interval of at least five minutes, before establishing a treatment mode in which the peristaltic pumps are used to control a net flow of fluid into or from the patient.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the treatment machine is a hemodialysis machine and the pumps regulate a flow of dialysate into and out of a dialyzer.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising, after said break-in interval, performing a flow calibration procedure in which the flow of one of said peristaltic pumps is calibrated against a standard or another of said peristaltic pumps.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the calibration procedure generates a control parameter that is used by the controller to regulate said peristaltic pumps during the treatment mode.
</claims>
</document>
