<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06T11/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DENNIS, STEVEN
IRVING, SAMUEL
MICHAEL, CHRISTOPHER
PALMSTEN, MEG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69644673
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HUMAN-ASSISTED MACHINE LEARNING THROUGH GEOMETRIC MANIPULATION AND REFINEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for feature detection such that users can apply advanced machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) without the need for a deep understanding of existing algorithms and techniques. Embodiments of the present disclosure provide systems and methods than enable easy access to a suite of machine learning algorithms and techniques, an intuitive interface for training an AI to recognize image features based on geometric 'correct and refine' recursion, and real-time visualizations of training effectiveness.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is: 1. A system for classifying an image, the system comprising: a user device; and an image classifier device in communication with the user device, wherein the image classifier device is configured to: receive the image from the user device, receive, from the user device, a name of a region in the image and a designator for visualization of the region, generate a first labeled image based on the name of the region and the designator, send the labeled image to the user device, receive a correction to the labeled image from the user device, and generate a second labeled image based on the correction.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first labeled image comprises a first polyline, and wherein the correction comprises a location of a vertex in the first polyline.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the first labeled image comprises a first polygon, and wherein the correction comprises a location of a vertex in the first polygon.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the image classifier device is further configured to: determine, based on the location of the vertex, a plurality of uncertainties for a plurality of points along the first polyline; determine a plurality of vertices based on the determined uncertainties; connect the determined plurality of vertices with respective lines, thereby generating a second polyline; and generate a second labeled image comprising the second polyline.
5. A method for classifying an image, the method comprising: receiving the image from a user device; receiving, from the user device, a name of a region in the image and a designator for visualization of the region; generating a first labeled image based on the name of the region and the designator; sending the labeled image to the user device; receiving a correction to the labeled image from the user device; and generating a second labeled image based on the correction.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the first labeled image comprises a first polyline, and wherein the correction comprises a location of a vertex in the first polyline.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: determining, based on the location of the vertex, a plurality of uncertainties for a plurality of points along the first polyline; determining a plurality of vertices based on the determined uncertainties; connecting the determined plurality of vertices with respective lines, thereby generating a second polyline; and generating a second labeled image comprising the second polyline.
8. A method for classifying an image, the method comprising: receiving the image from a user device; receiving, from the user device, a name of a region in the image and a designator for visualization of the region; generating a first labeled image based on the name of the region and the designator, wherein the first labeled image comprises a first polyline; sending the labeled image to the user device; receiving a correction to the labeled image from the user device, wherein the correction comprises a location of a vertex in the first polyline; generating a second polyline, wherein generating the second polyline comprises: determining, based on the location of the vertex, a plurality of uncertainties for a plurality of points along the first polyline, determining a plurality of vertices based on the determined uncertainties, and generating the second polyline based on the determined plurality of vertices; and generating a second labeled image comprising the second polyline.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein determining an uncertainty for a first point in the plurality of points comprises: determining a search space for the first point; determining an average value of a feature at points along the search space; and determining the uncertainty for the first point by comparing the determined average value with a value of the feature at the first point.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the search space comprises a second plurality of points along a line drawn at an angle from the first point.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein determining the search space further comprises: determining the angle for the line based on input from a user, wherein corresponding search spaces for each point in the plurality of points comprise corresponding points along corresponding lines drawn at the angle from each point in the plurality of points.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the search space further comprises: determining a line that is orthogonal to the first polyline at the first point, wherein the search space comprises a second plurality of points along the line.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the first polyline encloses a first polygon, and wherein determining an uncertainty for a first point in the plurality of points comprises: determining a location of an interior point inside the polygon, wherein the search space comprises a second plurality of points along a line drawn from the interior point to the first point.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein determining the location of the interior point comprises: determining a location in the middle of the polygon as the interior point.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the first polyline encloses a first polygon, and wherein determining an uncertainty for a first point in the plurality of points comprises: determining a line that is orthogonal to the first polyline at the first point, wherein the search space comprises a second plurality of points along the line.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein determining an average value of a feature at points along the search space comprises determining an average color at pixels in the image, wherein respective locations of the pixels in the image correspond to respective locations of points along the search space.
17. The method of claim 8, wherein generating the second polyline based on the determined plurality of vertices comprises: selecting a plurality of points along the first polyline having the highest uncertainties in the plurality of uncertainties as the determined plurality of vertices.
18. The method of claim 8, wherein generating the second polyline based on the determined plurality of vertices comprises: selecting a plurality of points along the first polyline having the lowest uncertainties in the plurality of uncertainties as the determined plurality of vertices.
19. The method of claim 8, wherein determining the plurality of vertices further comprises: determining a number of vertices in the plurality of vertices based on a number of locations of vertices in the first polyline in the correction.
20. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining whether the search space for the first point overlaps an area outside the region; and increasing the uncertainty for the first point in response to determining that the search space for the first point overlaps the area outside the region.
</claims>
</document>
