<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F12/0875,G06F12/126,G06F13/16,G06F9/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICRON TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAMESH, VIJAY S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74103103
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BIT STRING LOOKUP DATA STRUCTURE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, apparatuses, and methods related to bit string operations using a computing tile are described. An example apparatus includes computing device (or 'tile') that includes a processing unit and a memory resource configured as a cache for the processing unit. A data structure can be coupled to the computing device. The data structure can be configured to receive a bit string that represents a result of an arithmetic operation, a logical operation, or both and store the bit string that represents the result of the arithmetic operation, the logical operation, or both. The bit string can be formatted in a format different than a floating-point format.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising:
a computing device comprising a processing unit and a memory resource configured as a cache for the processing unit coupled to a data structure comprising a plurality of memory cells, wherein the computing device is configured to:
convert a bit string from a first format that supports operations to a first level of precision to a format that supports operations to a second level of precision in response to receipt of a first command;
transfer the bit string having the second format that supports operations to the second level of precision to the data structure, and wherein the data structure is configured to:
receive the bit string having the second format that supports operations to the second level of precision from the computing device, the bit string comprising a resultant bit string that represents a result of an arithmetic operation, a logical operation, or both;
store the resultant bit string in the plurality of memory cells; and transfer the resultant bit string to circuitry external to the data structure in response to receipt of a bit string request command received by the computing device.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is configured to, prior to the data structure receiving the resultant bit string, cause performance of the arithmetic operation, the logical operation, or both.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the computing device is configured to: determine that a bit string that represents a result of a different arithmetic operation, a different logical operation, or both is stored in a data structure associated with a different computing device coupled to the computing device; request the bit string that represents a result of the different arithmetic operation, the different logical operation, or both from the different computing device; and receive, via an interface coupled to the computing device and the different computing device, the bit string that represents a result of the different arithmetic operation, the different logical operation, or both.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the computing device is further configured to cause the bit string to be transferred to circuitry external to the computing device via the interface without receiving a command from a host coupleable to the computing device.
5. The apparatus of any one of claims 1-4, wherein an address associated with the bit string is stored in the memory resource, and wherein the processing unit is configured to access the bit string based, at least in part, on the address stored in the memory resource.
6. The apparatus of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the bit string is formatted according to a universal number format or a posit format.
7. The apparatus of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the data structure is stored in the memory resource.
8. A system, comprising:
a first computing device comprising a processing unit and a memory resource configured as a cache for the processing unit;
a second computing device comprising a processing unit and a memory resource configured as a cache for the processing unit; and
a data structure coupled to the first computing device and the second computing device, wherein the data structure is configured to:
receive a bit string that represents a result of an arithmetic operation, a logical operation, or both;
store the bit string that represents the result of the arithmetic operation, the logical operation, or both, wherein the bit string is formatted in a format different than a floating-point format; and
transfer the bit string that represents the result of the arithmetic operation, the logical operation, or both to the first computing device or the second computing device in response to a read command accessing an address of the data structure based on a type of arithmetic operation, logical operation, or both associated with the stored bit string indicated by the read command.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein at least one of the first processing unit of the first computing device and the processing unit of the second computing device is configured to, prior to the data structure receiving the bit string, cause performance of the arithmetic operation, the logical operation, or both.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein at least one of the first processing unit of the first computing device and the processing unit of the second computing device is configured to: retrieve the bit string from the data structure responsive to a request to perform an operation using a first bit string operand and a second bit string operand; and
cause the bit string to be transferred via an interface coupled to the first computing device and the second computing device to circuitry external to the first computing device and the second computing device.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one of the processing unit of the first computing device and the processing unit of the second computing device is configured to retrieve the bit string and cause the bit string to be transferred to the circuitry external to the first computing device and the second computing device in the absence of receipt of a command from the circuitry external to the first computing device and the second computing device.
12. The system of any one of claims 8-11, wherein at least one of the processing unit of the first computing device and the processing unit of the second computing device is configured to, prior to the data structure receiving the bit string, cause performance of a conversion operation to convert the bit string from a format that supports arithmetic operations to a first level of precision to a format that supports arithmetic operations to a second level of precision.
13. The system of any one of claims 8-11, wherein the bit string includes a sign bit sub-set, a regime bit sub-set, a mantissa bit sub-set, and an exponent bit sub-set.
14. The system of any one of claims 8-11, further comprising a controller coupled to the first computing device and the second computing device, wherein the controller is configured to:
generate a logical record corresponding to the bit string; and
cause the logical record to be transferred to circuitry external to the first computing device and the second computing device.
15. A method, comprising:
receiving, from a host device at a computing device that comprises a processing unit and a memory resource, signaling that indicates a plurality of numbers having a first format and a logical operation or an arithmetic operation, or both, to be performed on the plurality of numbers of the first format;
converting, at the computing device, the plurality of numbers from the first format to a second format different from the first format;
transmitting, from the computing device, a command to read a plurality cells of a non-volatile memory (NVM) device coupled to the computing device, the NVM device comprising data indicative of results from the logical operation or the arithmetic operation, or both, performed on numbers of the second format, wherein an address of the plurality of cells accessed by the read command is based at least in part on the plurality of numbers having the second format and a type of the logical operation or arithmetic operation, or both, indicated by the received signaling;
receiving, at the computing device, data from the plurality of cells in response to the command to read the plurality of cells, wherein the data represents a result of the logical operation or the arithmetic operation, or both, on the plurality of numbers;
converting, at the computing device, the data from the second format to the first format; and
transmitting, from the computing device to a host device, the data having the first format in response to the received signaling.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
generating a logical record corresponding to the data; and
causing, by the computing device, the logical record to be transferred to circuitry external to the computing device.
17. The method of any one of claims 15 and 16, wherein the data is formatted in a universal number format or a posit format.
18. The method of any one of claims 15 and 16, further comprising performing, using the computing device, an arithmetic operation, a logical operation, or both using a first bit string operand and a second bit string operand to generate the data.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising performing, using the computing device, an operation to convert the data from a format that supports arithmetic operations to a first level of precision to a format that supports arithmetic operations to a second level of precision prior to storing the bit string that represents the result of the arithmetic operation, the logical operation, or both in a data structure coupled to the computing device.
20. The method of any one of claims 15 and 16, wherein the first format or the second format includes a sign bit sub-set, a regime bit sub-set, a mantissa bit sub-set, and an exponent bit sub-set.
</claims>
</document>
