<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/063,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIPSOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DE VANGEL, BENOIT CHAPPET
LARZUL, LUDOVIC
MOUTOUSSAMMY, Vincent
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66397330
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ACCELERATING NEURON COMPUTATIONS IN ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS BY SKIPPING BITS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for accelerating neuron computations in artificial neural network (ANN) are provided. An example method may comprise receiving, for calculation of a neuron of an ANN, a plurality of first values represented by A bits and a plurality of second values represented by B bits, splitting each value of the plurality of the first values into a set of parts, a count of bits of each of set of parts being less than A, to obtain a set of pluralities of parts, selectively performing mathematical operations on a first plurality of the set of pluralities and the plurality of the second values to obtain a first result, selectively performing further mathematical operations on further pluralities of the set of pluralities and the plurality of the second values to obtain further results, and determining, based on the first result and the further results, an output of the neuron.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is: 1. A system for accelerating neuron computations in artificial neural network (ANN), the system comprising:
one or more processing units configured to:
receive a plurality of first values represented by A bits and a plurality of second values represented by B bits, the plurality of first values and the plurality of second values are to be used for calculation of a neuron of an ANN;
split each first value of the plurality of first values into a set of parts to obtain a set of pluralities of parts, a count of bits of each part of the set of the parts being less than A;
selectively perform mathematical operations on a first plurality of the set of the pluralities of the parts and the plurality of second values to obtain a first result;
selectively perform further mathematical operations on further pluralities of the set of the pluralities of the parts and the plurality of the second values to obtain further results; and
determine, based on the first result and the further results, an output of the neuron. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein each part of the first plurality represents first C bits of a first value from the plurality of first values, the first C bits starting with a most significant bit in the first value.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein each first value of the plurality of first values is split into a first part and a second part, the first part being C bits of the first value and the second part being one of: C, C+1, or C-1 further bits of the first value and a sum of a bit count of the first part and a bit count of the second part is A. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein one of:
the plurality of first values includes inputs of the neuron of the ANN and the plurality of the second values includes weights associated with the inputs of the neuron; or
the plurality of first values includes the weights associated with the inputs of the neuron of the ANN and the plurality of the second values includes the inputs of the neuron of the ANN. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein selectively performing the mathematical operations on the first plurality of the set of the pluralities of the parts and the plurality of second values includes:
for each part of the first plurality:
determining that the part satisfies criteria; and in response to the determination:
multiplying the part by corresponding second value of the plurality of second values to obtain a product; and
adding the product to the first result. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the multiplying is performed by an arithmetic unit configured to operate on a first operand and a second operand, a count of bits of the first operand being less than A bits and a count of bits of the second operand being B. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein the determining that the part satisfies the criteria includes comparing the part to one or more thresholds. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processing units are configured to:
compare the first result to one or more thresholds; and
based on a result of the comparison, skip performing the further mathematical operations on the further pluralities of the set of the pluralities of the parts and the plurality of the second values. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein selectively performing the mathematical operations on the further pluralities of the set of the pluralities of the parts and the plurality of the second values includes:
for each further part of each of the further pluralities:
determining that the further part satisfy criteria; and
in response to the determination:
multiplying the further part by a corresponding second value of the plurality of the second values to obtain a product; and
adding the product to the further result. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the determining that the further part satisfies the criteria includes comparing the further part to one or more thresholds.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the determining that the further part satisfies the criteria includes comparing the first result to one or more first thresholds and comparing the further part to one or more second thresholds. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the determining that the further part satisfies the criteria includes comparing the further part to a percentage of the first result. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processing units are configured to, after splitting each first value of the plurality of first values into the set of parts: split each second value of the plurality of second values into a further set of parts to obtain a further set of pluralities of parts, a count of bits of each part of the further set of the parts being less than B;
selectively perform mathematical operations on a first plurality of the set of the pluralities of the parts and a first further plurality of the further set of pluralities of parts to obtain a first partial result;
determine that the first partial result does not satisfy criteria;
in response to the criteria, selectively perform further mathematical operations on further pluralities of the set of the pluralities of the parts and further pluralities of the further set of pluralities of parts to obtain at least one further partial result; and
determine, based on the first partial result and the at least one further partial result, the output of the neuron of the ANN. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processing units include at least one electronic component accelerating the computation of one or more neurons of the
15. A system for accelerating neuron computations in artificial neural network (ANN), the system comprising:
one or more processing units configured to:
receive a plurality of first values represented by A bits and a plurality of second values represented by B bits, the plurality of the first values and the plurality of the second values are to be used for calculation of a neuron of an ANN;
for each first value of the plurality of first values:
select C bits from the first value, wherein C < A;
determine an offset of the C bits from a least significant bit in the first value;
determine that the selected C bits and the offset satisfy criteria; and
in response to the criteria:
perform a mathematical operation on the selected C bits and corresponding second value of the plurality of second values to obtain a result; and
binary shift the result by the offset; and
add the result to a sum, wherein the sum is to be used to compute an output of the neuron. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the selecting the C bits from the first value includes selecting C consecutive bits starting with a first non-zero bit after a most significant bit.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the C bits are selected from the first value starting from one or more pre-determined bit positions in the first value. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein the determining that the selected C bits and the offset satisfy criteria includes determining that the offset exceeds a threshold. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the threshold depends on a value of the sum. 20. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more processing units are configured to:
in response to the criteria:
perform a mathematical operation on the selected C bits and corresponding second value of the plurality of second values to obtain a result; and
add the result to a partial sum; and
binary shift the partial sum by the offset; and
add the shifted partial sum to the sum is to be used to compute the output of the neuron. 21. A method for accelerating neuron computations in artificial neural network (ANN), the method comprising:
receiving, by one or more processing units, a plurality of first values represented by A bits and a plurality of second values represented by B bits, wherein the plurality of the first values and the plurality of the second values are used for calculation of a neuron of an ANN; selecting, by the one or more processing units, one or more parts of each value from the plurality of the first values to obtain one or more pluralities of parts, the count of bits of each of the one or more parts being less than A;
selectively performing, by the one or more processing units, mathematical operations on the one or more pluralities of parts and the plurality of the second values to obtain a result; and
determining, by the one or more processing units and based on the result, an output of the neuron.
</claims>
</document>
