<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01D18/00,G01D5/244
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WAYMO
</assignee>

<inventors>
BERG, ALEC
ROBINSON, CRAIG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72426048
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICES AND METHODS FOR ROTARY ENCODER CALIBRATION
</title>

<abstract>
One example method involves generating a calibration control signal for controlling an actuator configured to rotate a first platform about an axis. The calibration control signal causes the actuator to rotate the first platform at least one complete rotation about the axis. The method also involves receiving encoder output signals. The encoder output signals are indicative of angular positions of the first platform about the axis. The method also involves receiving sensor output signals from an orientation sensor mounted on the first platform. The sensor output signals are indicative of a rate of change to an orientation of the orientation sensor. The method also involves determining calibration data based on given sensor output signals received from the orientation sensor during the at least one complete rotation. The calibration data is for mapping the encoder output signals to calibrated measurements of the angular positions of the first platform about the axis.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method comprising:
generating, at a device that includes an actuator configured to rotate a first platform about an axis of rotation, a calibration control signal for controlling the actuator, wherein the calibration control signal causes the actuator to rotate the first platform at least one complete rotation about the axis;
receiving, from an encoder, encoder output signals indicative of angular positions of the first platform about the axis;
receiving, from an orientation sensor mounted on the first platform, sensor output signals indicative of a rate of change to an orientation of the orientation sensor; and
determining, based on given sensor output signals received from the orientation sensor during the at least one complete rotation, calibration data for mapping the encoder output signals to calibrated measurements of the angular positions of the first platform about the axis.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the orientation sensor comprises a gyroscope.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
detecting completion of each of the at least one complete rotation of the first platform about the axis based on the encoder output signals.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
during the at least one complete rotation of the first platform about the axis, estimating a rate of rotation of the first platform based on the given sensor output signals; and modulating the calibration control signal based on the estimated rate of rotation.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein modulating the calibration control signal comprises modulating the calibration signal based on a difference between the estimated rate of rotation and a target rate of rotation.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
during the at least one complete rotation of the first platform about the axis, modulating the calibration control signal based on the sensor output signals and the encoder output signals.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the encoder is a magnetic encoder, the method further comprising:
identifying a defect in the magnetic encoder based on the calibration data.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the magnetic encoder includes a plurality of magnets mounted to the first platform and arranged around the axis of rotation of the first platform, and wherein identifying the defect in the magnetic encoder comprises identifying a particular magnet of the plurality of magnets that is positioned at an offset from an expected position of the particular magnet in the arrangement of the plurality of magnets around the axis of rotation.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the magnetic encoder includes a plurality of magnets mounted to the first platform and arranged around the axis of rotation of the first platform, and wherein identifying the defect in the magnetic encoder comprises identifying a particular magnet of the plurality based on the particular magnet having a particular magnetic property that is offset from an expected magnetic property.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the particular magnetic property corresponds to a magnetic field strength, a magnetic polarization direction, a size, or a shape of the particular magnet.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the magnetic encoder includes a plurality of magnets mounted to the first platform and arranged around the axis of rotation of the first platform, and wherein identifying the defect in the magnetic encoder comprises identifying an offset between a circularity of the arrangement of the plurality of magnets around the axis of rotation and an expected circularity.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the magnetic encoder includes a plurality of magnets mounted to the first platform and arranged around the axis of rotation of the first platform, wherein the magnetic encoder includes a magnetic field sensor mounted on a second platform opposite the first platform, and wherein identifying the defect in the magnetic encoder comprises identifying a misalignment between the axis of rotation of the first platform and a normal axis of the second platform.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
identifying, based on the calibration data, sinusoidal characteristics of the mapping between the encoder output signals and estimated measurements of the angular positions of the first platform indicated by the given sensor output signals; generating, based on the identification of the sinusoidal characteristics, a compressed representation of the calibration data; and
storing the compressed representation in data storage.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein generating the compressed representation of the calibration data comprises determining Fast-Fourier-Transform (FFT) coefficients indicative of the identified sinusoidal characteristics.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is mounted on a vehicle configured to navigate an environment based on at least data from the device, the method further comprising: determining whether the vehicle is moving in the environment; and
based on at least a determination that the vehicle is not moving in the environment, enabling a calibration mode of the device, wherein generating the calibration control signal is based on the calibration mode being enabled.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
based on at least a determination that the vehicle is moving in the environment, disabling the calibration mode of the device; and
based on the calibration mode being disabled, generating a sensing-mode control signal for controlling the actuator,
wherein the sensing-mode control signal causes the actuator to rotate the first platform: (i) along a direction of rotation opposite to a direction of the change to the orientation of the orientation sensor indicated by the sensor output signals, and (ii) at a rate of rotation that is based on the rate of the change to the orientation of the orientation sensor indicated by the sensor output signals.
17. A system comprising:
a first platform;
an actuator configured to rotate the first platform about an axis;
an encoder configured to provide encoder output signals indicative of angular positions of the first platform about the axis;
an orientation sensor mounted on the first platform and configured to provide sensor output signals indicative of a rate of change to an orientation of the orientation sensor; and
a controller configured to cause the system to perform operations comprising:
generating a calibration control signal for controlling the actuator, wherein the calibration control signal causes the actuator to rotate the first platform at least one complete rotation about the axis; and
determining, based on given sensor output signals received from the orientation sensor during the at least one complete rotation, calibration data for mapping the encoder output signals to calibrated measurements of the angular positions of the first platform about the axis.
18. The system of claim 17, further comprising:
a plurality of magnets mounted to the first platform and arranged around the axis of rotation of the first platform, wherein the plurality of magnets generate a first magnetic field based on the arrangement of the plurality of magnets around the axis of rotation; and
a second platform configured to remain within a given distance to the first platform in response to the actuator rotating the first platform about the axis.
19. The system of claim 18, further comprising:
a plurality of conductive structures disposed in the second platform and arranged around the axis of rotation of the first platform opposite the plurality of magnets of the first platform, wherein the actuator includes the plurality of conductive structures of the second platform and the plurality of magnets of the first platform,
wherein the plurality of conductive structures form an electrically conductive path that extends around the axis of rotation based on the arrangement of the plurality of conductive structures,
wherein the controller is configured to provide the calibration control signal into the electrically conductive path defined by the plurality of conductive structures,
wherein the plurality of conductive structures generate a second magnetic field based on the calibration control signal, and
wherein the first magnetic field of the first platform interacts with the second magnetic field of the second platform to cause the first platform to rotate about the axis.
20. The system of claim 18, further comprising:
a magnetic field sensor disposed on a given surface of the second platform, wherein the magnetic field sensor is configured to measure the first magnetic field generated by the plurality of magnets,
wherein the encoder includes the plurality of magnets of the first platform and the magnetic field sensor of the second platform, and wherein the encoder provides the encoder output signals indicative of the angular positions of the first platform about the axis based on measurements of the first magnetic field indicated by the magnetic field sensor.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the operations further comprise:
determining sinusoidal measurement errors in measurements of the angular positions of the first platform indicated by the encoder output signals during the at least one complete rotation;
based on a determination that the sinusoidal measurement errors are associated with a concentricity of the first magnetic field at the given surface of the second platform relative to the axis of rotation of the first platform, identifying a first misalignment in a relative arrangement of the first platform and the second platform; and
based on a determination that the sinusoidal measurement errors are associated with a circularity of the arrangement of the plurality of magnets, identifying a second misalignment in the arrangement of the plurality of magnets around the axis of rotation of the first platform.
22. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform operations comprising:
generating a calibration control signal for controlling an actuator configured to rotate a platform about an axis, wherein the calibration control signal causes the actuator to rotate the platform at least one complete rotation about the axis;
receiving, from an encoder, encoder output signals indicative of angular positions of the platform about the axis; receiving, from an orientation sensor mounted on the platform, sensor output signals indicative of a rate of change to an orientation of the orientation sensor; and
determining, based on given sensor output signals provided by the orientation sensor during the at least one complete rotation, calibration data for mapping the encoder output signals to calibrated measurements of the angular positions of the platform about the axis.
</claims>
</document>
