<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04J13/00,H04L27/26,H04L5/00,H04W56/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAVYDOV, ALEXEI
LEE, DAE WON
MOROZOV, GREGORY
PAWAR, SAMEER
WANG, GUOTONG
XIONG GANG
ZHANG YUSHU
ZHU JIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72428064
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS OF PHASE-TRACKING REFERENCE SIGNAL TRANSMISSION FOR OFDM
</title>

<abstract>
Communication in a wireless network using a phase-tracking reference signal (PT-RS) for orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) includes determining one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers in a resource allocation for a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH) or a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH), encoding data to be transmitted by the PUSCH or the PDSCH in data subcarriers within the resource allocation for the PUSCH or the PDSCH, and encoding phase-tracking reference signals within the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for communicating a phase-tracking reference signal (PT-RS) for orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) in a wireless communication system, the apparatus comprising:
a processor; and
a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, configure the apparatus to:
determine one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers in a resource allocation for a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH) or a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH);
encode data to be transmitted by the PUSCH or the PDSCH in data subcarriers within the resource allocation for the PUSCH or the PDSCH; and
encode phase-tracking reference signals within the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent sub carriers.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is configured for a user equipment (UE) or a g Node B (gNB), and wherein the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers comprise at least two PT-RS groups separated from one another by one or more of the data subcarriers.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the instructions further configure the apparatus to configure a guard subcarrier within the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers to protect from inter-carrier interference created by the PUSCH or the PDSCH.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the instructions further configure the apparatus to configure the guard subcarrier with zero power at a boundary of the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent sub carriers.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the instructions further configure the apparatus to use unused power of the guard subcarrier configured with zero power to power boost non zero power PT-RS subcarriers within the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the instructions further configure the apparatus to modulate PT-RS subcarriers within the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers with a predetermined PT-RS modulation sequence.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the predetermined PT-RS modulation sequence is based on an impulse function or a Zadoff-Chu sequence.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein for the impulse function, the predetermined PTRS modulation sequence comprises:
wherein N is a number of non-zero subcarriers in the PT-RS group.
9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the instructions further configure the apparatus to cyclically extend the Zadoff-Chu sequence to zero-power guard subcarriers, wherein the predetermined PT-RS modulation sequence comprises:
where q is a root of the Zadoff-Chu sequence, Nzc is a length of the Zadoff-Chu sequence, N is a number of non-zero subcarriers in a PT-RS group, and No determines a length of the cyclic extension.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein to determine the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers in the resource allocation comprises to determine a total number of the adjacent subcarriers in the one or more PT-RS groups or a number of non-zero power subcarriers within the one or more PT-RS groups based on at least one of a radio resource control (RRC) signal, downlink control information (DCI), a cell identifier (ID), a virtual cell ID, a PT-RS port index, a radio network temporary identifier (RNTI), a symbol index, a slot index, a subcarrier spacing, a modulation and coding scheme (MCS), and a number of physical resource blocks (PRBs).
11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein to determine the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers in the resource allocation comprises to determine a frequency offset of the PTRS group based on at least one of a radio resource control (RRC) signal, downlink control information (DCI), a cell identifier (ID), a virtual cell ID, a PT-RS port index, a radio network temporary identifier (RNTI), a symbol index, a slot index, a subcarrier spacing, a modulation and coding scheme (MCS), and a number of physical resource blocks (PRBs).
12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein to determine the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers in the resource allocation is in response to a determination that a modulation and code scheme (MCS) indicated by downlink control information (DCI) is above an MCS threshold.
13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein to determine the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers in the resource allocation is in response to a determination that an allocated bandwidth is above an allocated bandwidth threshold.
14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the instructions further configure the apparatus to generate, at a user equipment (UE), UE capability signaling for a base station comprising at least one of a modulation and coding scheme (MCS) threshold and an allocated bandwidth threshold.
15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the instructions further configure the apparatus to, in response to determining that at least a subset of non-zero power PT-RS subcarriers within a particular PT-RS group of the one or more PT-RS groups are punctured due to a collision with another downlink signal, use PT-RS subcarriers within the PT-RS group for data channel transmission.
16. A method for transmitting a phase-tracking reference signal (PT-RS) for orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) in a wireless communication system, the method comprising:
determining one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers in a resource allocation for a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH) or a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH);
transmitting data in data subcarriers within the resource allocation for the PUSCH or the PDSCH; and
transmitting phase-tracking reference signals within the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent sub carriers.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising configuring a guard subcarrier with zero power at a boundary of the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising using unused power of the guard subcarrier configured with zero power to power boost non-zero power PT-RS subcarriers within the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers.
19. The method of claim 16, further comprising modulating PT-RS subcarriers within the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers with a predetermined PT-RS modulation sequence.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the predetermined PT-RS modulation sequence is based on an impulse function or a Zadoff-Chu sequence.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising cyclically extending the Zadoff-Chu sequence to zero-power guard subcarriers.
22. The method of claim 16, further comprising, in response to determining that at least a subset of non-zero power PT-RS subcarriers within a particular PT-RS group of the one or more PT-RS groups are punctured due to a collision with another downlink signal, using PT-RS subcarriers within the PT-RS group for data channel transmission.
23. A computer-readable storage medium, the computer-readable storage medium including instructions that when executed by a processor, cause the processor to:
determine one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers in a resource allocation for a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH) or a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH);
encode data in data subcarriers within the resource allocation for the PUSCH or the PDSCH; and
encode phase-tracking reference signals within the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent sub carriers.
24. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein the instructions further configure the processor to:
configure a guard subcarrier with zero power at a boundary of the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers; and
use unused power of the guard subcarrier configured with zero power to power boost non-zero power PT-RS subcarriers within the one or more PT-RS groups of adjacent subcarriers.
25. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein the instructions further configure the processor to modulate PT-RS subcarriers within the one or more PTRS groups of adjacent subcarriers with a predetermined PT-RS modulation sequence based on an impulse function or a Zadoff-Chu sequence.
</claims>
</document>
