<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHANTOM AUTO INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAGZIMOF, SHAY
MEZHANSKIY, Gleb
DERI, Yuval
PARUNAKIAN, David
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650145
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PLATFORM FOR REDUNDANT WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS OPTIMIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
A communication system facilities low-latency, high-availability multipath streaming between terminals (e.g., mobile terminals) and a server platform. In an example application, a remote support service operating on the server platform provides remote teleoperation, monitoring, or data processing services to a mobile terminal embodied as a vehicle or robot utilizing a low latency communication link. The low latency link enables a remote operator to receive video or telemetry feeds, and timely monitor and respond to hazards in substantially real- time. The low latency communication link may be achieved even when the data streams are transmitted over public networks incorporating at least one wireless leg, and where individual connections have varying quality of service in terms of delivery latency due to congestion or stochastic packet losses. Assignment of data streams to particular communication channels may be made on an optimization model derived from a machine-learning process or simulation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining assignments of data streams in a terminal to wireless
communication channels, the method comprising:
identifying a plurality of complementary sets of data streams, wherein the data streams within a complementary set represent redundant data from a common data source; obtaining an optimization model for optimizing the assignments of data streams to the wireless communication channels, the optimization model enforcing a constraint that data streams within a complementary set are assigned to at least two different wireless communication channels;
performing an optimization based on the optimization model to determine the
assignments;
configuring the terminal to transmit the data streams over the wireless communication channels in accordance with the assignments; and
transmitting the data streams over the wireless communication channels to a platform server.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
responsive to a change in state of the terminal, updating the optimization to determine updated assignments; and
re-configuring the terminal based on the updated assignments.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
responsive to a change in parameters of the wireless communications channels, updating the optimization to determine updated assignments; and
re-configuring the terminal based on the updated assignments.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the terminal comprises a mobile terminal, and wherein
optimization model is derived from a simulation of the terminal moving through an environment and information describing available network infrastructure in the environment.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the optimization comprises: generating a search graph with nodes representing a plurality of states of the terminal and edges representing actions for transitioning between the states;
for each of the states, computing a utility function that represents predicted wireless communication performance of the terminal in each of the states; determining an optimized state of the terminal that optimizes the utility function; and generating the assignments based on the optimized state.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the optimization model comprises:
applying a reinforcement learning model that trains an orchestrator of the terminal on a dataset acquired based on a simulation of the terminal moving through a wireless communication environment.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the terminal comprises a mobile terminal, and wherein
obtaining the optimization model comprises:
obtaining geospatial information relating to objects along a route of the terminal;
obtaining network infrastructure information relating to locations of wireless
communication infrastructure along the route;
performing a simulation of movement of the mobile terminal through the route and
predicting wireless communication performance based on the geospatial information and the network infrastructure information; and
storing a mapping of the performance parameters to locations along the route based on the simulation.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the optimization comprises optimizing for lowest latency or highest quality of service.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the optimization model comprises receiving a configuration from the server platform via an application programming interface of an orchestrator of the terminal.
10. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions for determining assignments of data streams in a terminal to wireless communication channels, the instructions when executed by a processor causing the processor to perform steps comprising: identifying a plurality of complementary sets of data streams, wherein the data streams within a complementary set represent redundant data from a common data source; obtaining an optimization model for optimizing the assignments of data streams to the wireless communication channels, the optimization model enforcing a constraint that data streams within a complementary set are assigned to at least two different wireless communication channels;
performing an optimization based on the optimization model to determine the
assignments;
configuring the terminal to transmit the data streams over the wireless communication channels in accordance with the assignments; and
transmitting the data streams over the wireless communication channels to a platform server.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, the instructions when executed further causing the processor to perform steps including:
responsive to a change in state of the terminal, updating the optimization to determine updated assignments; and
re-configuring the terminal based on the updated assignments.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, the instructions when executed further causing the processor to perform steps including:
responsive to a change in parameters of the wireless communications channels, updating the optimization to determine updated assignments; and
re-configuring the terminal based on the updated assignments.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the terminal comprises a mobile terminal, and wherein the optimization model is derived from a simulation of the terminal moving through an environment and information describing available network infrastructure in the environment.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein performing the optimization comprises:
generating a search graph with nodes representing a plurality of states of the terminal and edges representing actions for transitioning between the states; for each of the states, computing a utility function that represents predicted wireless communication performance of the terminal in each of the states; determining an optimized state of the terminal that optimizes the utility function; and generating the assignments based on the optimized state.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein obtaining the optimization model comprises:
applying a reinforcement learning model that trains an orchestrator of the terminal on a dataset acquired based on a simulation of the terminal moving through a wireless communication environment.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the terminal comprises a mobile terminal, and wherein obtaining the optimization model comprises: obtaining geospatial information relating to objects along a route of the mobile terminal; obtaining network infrastructure information relating to locations of wireless
communication infrastructure along the route;
performing a simulation of movement of the mobile terminal through the route and predicting wireless communication performance based on the geospatial information and the network infrastructure information; and
storing a mapping of the performance parameters to locations along the route based on the simulation.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein performing the optimization comprises optimizing for lowest latency or highest quality of service.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein obtaining the optimization model comprises receiving a configuration from the server platform via an application programming interface of an orchestrator of the terminal.
19. A computing system that communicates complementary data streams over a plurality of wireless communication channels, the computing device comprising:
one or more data sources;
one or more communication interfaces associated with the plurality of wireless
communication channels;
a processor; a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions for determining assignments of the complementary data streams to the wireless communication channels, the instructions when executed by the processor causing the processor to perform steps comprising:
generating, a plurality of complementary sets in the data streams, wherein the data streams within a complementary set represent redundant data from a common one of the data sources;
obtaining an optimization model for optimizing the assignments of data streams to the wireless communication channels, the optimization model enforcing a constraint that data streams within a complementary set are assigned to at least two different wireless communication channels;
performing an optimization based on the optimization model to determine the assignments;
configuring the communication interfaces to transmit the data streams over the wireless communication channels in accordance with the assignments; and transmitting the data streams by the communication interfaces over the wireless communication channels to a platform server.
20. The computing system of claim 19, the instructions when executed further causing the
processor to perform steps including:
responsive to a change in state of the computing system, updating the optimization to determine updated assignments; and
re-configuring the communication interfaces based on the updated assignments.
21. The computing system of claim 19, the instructions when executed further causing the
processor to perform steps including:
responsive to a change in parameters of the wireless communications channels, updating the optimization to determine updated assignments; and
re-configuring the communication interfaces based on the updated assignments.
22. The computing system of claim 19, wherein the computing system comprises a connected vehicle system.
23. The computing system of claim 19, wherein the computing system comprises a stationary camera system.
</claims>
</document>
