<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/063,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICRON TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PELLIZZER, FABIO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74043750
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STACKED ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus, such as a stacked artificial neural network, can include a semiconductor at a first level. The semiconductor can include first circuitry. A memory can be at a second level. Second circuitry can be at a third level such that the memory is between the first circuitry and the second circuitry. The first circuitry can be configured propagate a first signal to the memory. The memory can be configured to propagate a second signal, based on data stored in the memory, to the second circuitry in response to the first signal. The second circuitry can be configured to generate a data signal based on the second signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising:
a semiconductor at a first level and comprising first circuitry; a memory at a second level; and
second circuitry at a third level such that the memory is between the first circuitry and the second circuitry;
wherein:
the first circuitry is configured propagate a first signal to the memory;
the memory is configured to propagate a second signal, based on data stored in the memory, to the second circuitry in response to the first signal; and
the second circuitry is configured to generate a data signal based on the second signal.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first signal comprises a voltage and the second signal comprises current.
3. The apparatus of any one of claim 1-2, wherein the second circuitry comprises compute circuitry that is configured to generate the data signal by applying a mathematical function to a digital representation of the second signal, and wherein the second circuitry comprises an analog-todigital converter that is configured to convert the second signal to the digital representation of the second signal.
4. The apparatus of any one of claims 1-2, wherein
the apparatus comprises an additional memory at a fourth level such that the second circuitry is between the memory and the additional memory; and
the second circuitry is configured to propagate a third signal to the additional memory array in response to the data value,
wherein:
the data signal is a first data signal; the additional memory is configured to propagate a fourth signal, based on data stored in the additional memory array, to the first circuitry in response to the third signal; and
the first circuitry is configured to generate a second data signal that is based on the fourth signal.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the first circuitry is configured to output the second data signal from the apparatus.
6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the first circuitry is configured to compare the second data signal to a desired data signal;
generate an error signal in response to the compare; and back propagate the error signal to the additional memory, wherein:
the additional memory is configured to back propagate a fifth signal, based on the data stored in the additional memory, to the second circuitry; and
the second circuitry is configured to determine a correction to the data stored in the additional memory based on the back propagated the fifth signal.
7. The apparatus of any one of claims 1-2, wherein
the data signal is a digital data signal; and
the second circuitry comprises a digital-to-analog converter that is configured to convert the digital data signal to an analog signal.
8. The apparatus of any one of claims 1-2, wherein
the memory comprises:
a plurality of first groupings of memory cells; and a plurality of second groupings of memory cells;
each second grouping comprises one memory cell from each first grouping;
the first groupings are coupled to first signal lines; the second groupings are coupled to second signal lines;
the first signal is one of a plurality of first signals propagated to the memory by applying the first signals to the first signal lines; and the second signal is one of a plurality of second signals propagated to the second circuitry by the second signal lines and, wherein the second circuitry comprises analog-to digital-converters coupled to the second signal lines; and
the analog-to-digital converters are configured to convert the second signals to digital signals.
9. The apparatus of any one of claims 1-2, wherein
the memory comprises:
a plurality of first groupings of memory cells; and a plurality of second groupings of memory cells;
each second grouping comprises one memory cell from each first grouping;
the first groupings are coupled to first signal lines; the second groupings are coupled to second signal lines;
the first signal is one of a plurality of first signals propagated to the memory by applying the first signals to the first signal lines; and the second signal is one of a plurality of second signals propagated to the second circuitry by the second signal lines and,
wherein:
the first circuitry comprises digital-to-analog converters coupled to the first signal lines; and
the digital-to-analog converters are configured to convert digital signals received at the first circuitry to the first signals.
10. The apparatus any one of claims 1-2, wherein
the first circuitry comprises CMOS circuitry; and the second circuitry comprises thin-film circuitry.
11. An apparatus, comprising: a stacked artificial neural network, comprising:
a semiconductor comprising circuitry;
a stack of memory layers and layers of circuitry extending from the semiconductor such that each respective layer of circuitry is between a respective pair of the memory layers;
wherein each respective layer of circuity is configured to: receive signals from a first memory layer of the respective pair of the memory layers;
generate activation signals based on the received signals; and
apply the activation signals to a second memory layer of the respective pair of the memory layers.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the signals received from the first memory layer are forward propagated, from the first memory layer and the activation signals are forward propagated to the second memory layer.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the signals received from the first memory array comprise error signals and are backward propagated from the first memory layer and the activation signals are backward propagated to the second memory layer.
14. An apparatus, comprising:
a semiconductor at a first level, wherein the semiconductor comprises first circuitry;
a stack extending from the semiconductor, wherein the stack comprises:
a first memory array at a second level;
second circuitry at a third level; and a second memory array at a fourth level;
wherein:
the first circuitry is configured to apply first activation signals to the first memory array; the first memory array is configured to output signals to the second circuitry in response to the applied first activation signals; and the second circuitry is configured to:
generate second activation signals based on the signals output to the second circuitry by the first memory array; and apply the second activation signals to the second memory array.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein
the first memory array comprises a plurality of groups of memory cells;
each respective group of memory cells is coupled to a respective signal line;
the signals output to the second circuitry by the first memory array comprise a signal on each respective signal line; and
the signal on each respective signal line comprises a sum of respective currents flowing through respective activated memory cells of the respective group of memory cells coupled to the respective signal line, wherein each respective current is weighted according to a respective data state of the respective activated memory cell.
16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein
the first memory array comprises a plurality of groups of memory cells;
each respective group of memory cells is coupled to a respective signal line;
the signals output to the second circuitry by the first memory array comprise a signal on each respective signal line; and
the signal on each respective signal line comprises a sum of respective currents flowing through respective activated memory cells of the respective group of memory cells coupled to the respective signal line, wherein each respective activated memory cell is activated by a respective first activation signal of the applied first activation signals.
17. The apparatus of any one of claims 14-16, wherein the second circuitry comprises decode circuitry configured to select the signals for output to the second circuitry by the first memory array.
18. A method, comprising:
propagating first signals from first circuitry in a semiconductor to a first memory array at a first level in a stack that extends from the semiconductor;
activating the first memory array in response to the first signals; propagating second signals, based on data stored in the first memory array, from the activated first memory array to second circuitry at a second level in the stack;
generating third signals, by the second circuitry, in response to the second signals;
propagating the third signals to a second memory array at a third level in the stack; and
activating the second memory array in response to the second signals.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising:
selecting the respective second signals, by respective first decoders of the second circuitry before propagating the second signals to the second circuitry; and
selecting the respective third signals, by respective second decoders of the second circuitry, before propagating the third signals to the second memory array, wherein:
each propagated second signal comprises a sum of currents respectively flowing through memory cells that are respectively activated by the first signals; and
the currents respectively flowing through the memory cells are respectively weighted according to data states of the memory cells.
20. The method of any one of claims 18-19, wherein generating third signals, by the second circuitry, in response to the second signals, comprises: converting the second signals to first digital signals by analog-todigital converters of the second circuitry;
generating second digital signals from the first digital signals by compute circuitry of the second circuitry; and
converting the second digital signals to the third signals by digital-to-analogconverters of the second circuitry.
</claims>
</document>
