<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16B30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GRAIL
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUBBELL EARL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71101659
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR USING FRAGMENT LENGTHS AS A PREDICTOR OF CANCER
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for determining relevant medical information about a cancer based on the distribution of fragment lengths of cell-free DNA sequenced from a biological fluid sample. In certain embodiments, the systems and methods are useful for segmenting a cancer genome, phasing alleles in a cancer genome, detecting the loss of heterozygosity in a cancer genome, assigning an origin of a variant allele, validating a sequencing mapping, and validating use of an allele in a cancer classifier.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of segmenting all or a portion of a reference genome for a species of a subject, the method comprising:
at a computer system comprising one or more processors, and memory storing one or more programs for execution by the one or more processors:
(A) obtaining a dataset comprising a plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences in electronic form from cell-free DNA in a first biological fluid sample from the subject, wherein each respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences represents all or a portion of a respective cell-free DNA molecule in a population of cell-free DNA molecules in the first biological fluid sample, the respective nucleic acid fragment sequence encompassing a corresponding locus in a plurality of loci, wherein each locus in the plurality of loci is represented by at least two different alleles within the population of cell-free DNA molecules;
(B) assigning, for each respective allele represented at each locus in the plurality of loci, a size-distribution metric based on a characteristic of the distribution of the fragment lengths of the cell-free DNA molecules in the population of cell-free DNA molecules that encompass the allele, thereby obtaining a set of size-distribution metrics;
(C) assigning, for each respective allele represented at each locus in the plurality of loci, one or both of:
(1) a read-depth metric based on a frequency of nucleic acid fragment sequences, in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences, associated with the respective allele, thereby obtaining a set of read-depth metrics associated with the plurality of loci, and
(2) an allele-frequency metric based on (i) a frequency of occurrence of the respective allele of the respective locus across the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences and (ii) a frequency of occurrence of a second allele of the respective locus across the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences, thereby obtaining a set of allele-frequency metrics associated with the plurality of loci;
(D) using the set of size-distribution metrics and one or both of the set of (1) readdepth metrics and (2) allele-frequency metrics to segment all or a portion of the reference genome for the species of the subject.
2 The method of claim 1, wherein the using (D) comprises: rank transforming each size-distribution metric in the set of size-distribution metrics and one or both of (1) each read-depth metric in the set of read-depth metrics and (2) each frequency metric in the set of frequency metrics; and
applying circular binary segmentation to a multivariate distribution statistic generated for each allele represented at each locus in the plurality of loci, wherein the multivariate distribution statistic incorporates the corresponding rank-transformed size-distribution metric and one or both of (1) the corresponding rank-transformed read-depth metric and (2) the corresponding rank-transformed allele-frequency metric, for the allele represented at the locus.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein both of the set of read-depth metrics and the set of frequency metrics are used to segment all or a portion of the reference genome for the species of the subject.
4. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the set of read-depth metrics, but not frequency metrics, are used to segment all or a portion of the reference genome for the species of the subject.
5. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the set of frequency metrics, but not read-depth metrics, are used to segment all or a portion of the reference genome for the species of the subject.
6. The method according to any one of claims 2 to 5, wherein the multivariate distribution statistic used is Hotelling's T-squared distribution.
7. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein each respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences is obtained by generating complementary sequence reads from both ends of a respective cell-free DNA molecule in the population of cell-free DNA, wherein the complementary sequence reads are combined to form a respective sequence read, which is collapsed with other respective sequence reads of the same unique nucleic acid fragment to form the respective nucleic acid fragment sequence.
8. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a blood sample.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein:
the blood sample is a whole blood sample; and
prior to generating the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences from the whole blood sample, white blood cells are removed from the whole blood sample.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the method further comprises obtaining a second plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences in electronic form of genomic DNA from the white blood cells removed from the whole blood sample.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the blood sample is a blood serum sample.
12. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the first biological fluid sample comprises blood, whole blood, plasma, serum, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, fecal, saliva, sweat, tears, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, or peritoneal fluid of the subject.
13. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the first biological fluid sample consists of blood, whole blood, plasma, serum, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, fecal, saliva, sweat, tears, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, or peritoneal fluid of the subject.
14. A method of phasing alleles present on a matching pair of chromosomes in a cancerous tissue of a subject that is a member of a species, the method comprising:
at computer system having one or more processors, and memory storing one or more programs for execution by the one or more processors:
(A) obtaining a dataset comprising a plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences in electronic form from a first biological fluid sample of the subject, wherein each respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences represents all or a portion of a respective cell-free DNA molecule in a population of cell-free DNA molecules in the first biological fluid sample, the respective nucleic acid fragment sequence encompassing a corresponding locus in a plurality of loci, wherein each locus in the plurality of loci is represented by at least two different alleles within the population of cellfree DNA molecules; (B) compressing the dataset by assigning, for each respective allele represented at each locus in the plurality of loci, a size-distribution metric based on a characteristic of a distribution of the fragment lengths of the cell-free DNA molecules in the population of cell-free DNA molecules that encompass the respective allele, thereby obtaining a set of size-distribution metrics;
(C) identifying a first locus in the plurality of loci, represented by both (i) a first allele having a first size-distribution metric and (ii) a second allele having a second sizedistribution metric, wherein a threshold probability or likelihood exists that the copy number of the first allele is different than the copy number of the second allele in a subpopulation of cells within the cancerous tissue of the subject as determined by a parametric or nonparametric based classifier that evaluates one or more properties of the cell-free DNA molecules in the sample that encompass the first locus, wherein the one or more properties includes the first size-distribution metric and the second size-distribution metric;
(D) determining, for a second locus in the plurality of loci located proximate to the first locus on a reference genome for the species of the subject, the second locus represented by both (iii) a third allele having a third size-distribution metric and (iv) a fourth allele having a fourth size-distribution metric, whether a threshold probability exists that the copy number of the third allele is different than the copy number of the fourth allele in the subpopulation of cells as determined by a parametric or non-parametric based classifier that evaluates one or more properties of the cell-free DNA molecules in the sample that encompass the second locus, wherein the one or more properties includes the third sizedistribution metric and the fourth size-distribution metric; and
(E) when the threshold probability or likelihood exists that the copy number of the third allele is different than the copy number of the fourth allele in the subpopulation of cells, determining whether it is more likely that the copy number of the first allele is more similar to the copy number of the third allele or the copy number of the fourth allele in the sub-population of cancer cells; wherein:
when it is more likely that the copy number of the first allele is more similar to the copy number of the third allele in the subpopulation of cancer cells, assigning the first allele and the third allele to a first chromosome in a matching pair of chromosomes and assigning the second allele and the fourth allele to a second chromosome in the matching pair of chromosomes that is different than the first chromosome, and
when it is more likely that the copy number of the first allele is more similar to the copy number of the fourth allele in the subpopulation, assigning the first allele and the fourth allele to a first chromosome in a matching pair of chromosomes and assigning the second allele and the third allele to a second chromosome in the matching pair of chromosomes that is different than the first chromosome;
thereby phasing the allele sequences at the first and second loci present on a matching pair of chromosomes in the cancerous tissue.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the one or more properties used to determine a probability or likelihood of a difference in copy number between corresponding alleles at the respective locus further includes an allele-frequency metric based on a frequency of occurrence of one respective allele of the respective locus relative to a frequency of occurrence of the other respective allele of the respective locus in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences.
16. The method of claim 14 or 15, wherein the one or more properties used to determine a probability or likelihood of a difference in copy number between corresponding alleles at the respective locus further includes a read-depth metric based on a frequency of nucleic acid fragment sequences, in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences, associated with the respective allele.
17. The method according to any one of claims 14 to 16, wherein the parametric or nonparametric based classifier is an expectation maximization algorithm.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the expectation maximization algorithm is seeded with at least a representative size-distribution metric for cell-free DNA fragments
encompassing a variant allele originating from a known source.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein a representative size-distribution metric is for cellfree DNA fragments encompassing a variant allele originating from a cancerous tissue.
20. The method of claim 18 or 19, wherein a representative size-distribution metric is for cell-free DNA fragments encompassing a germline variant allele.
21. The method according to any one of claims 18 to 20, wherein a representative sizedistribution metric is for cell-free DNA fragments encompassing a variant allele originating from clonal hematopoiesis.
22. The method according to any one of claims 18 to 21, wherein the representative sizedistribution metric is based on a fragment length distribution of cell-free DNA in the sample encompassing one or more reference variant alleles with a known origin.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the origin of a reference variant allele is determined by sequencing the locus corresponding to the reference variant allele in a second biological fluid sample of the subject, wherein the second biological fluid sample is a different type of biological fluid sample than the first biological fluid sample.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a cell-free blood sample and the second biological fluid sample is a white blood cell sample.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a cell-free blood sample and the second biological fluid sample is a cancerous tissue biopsy.
26. The method of claim 23, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a cell-free blood sample and the second biological fluid sample is non-cancerous tissue sample.
27. The method according to any one of claims 14 to 16, wherein the parametric or nonparametric based classifier is an unsupervised clustering algorithm.
28. The method according to any one of claims 14 to 27, wherein the determining (E) includes:
determining a first measure of similarity between one or more properties of the cellfree DNA molecules in the sample that encompass the first allele and the one or more properties of the cell-free DNA molecules in the sample that encompass the third allele; and determining a second measure of similarity between one or more properties of the cell-free DNA molecules in the sample that encompass the first allele and the one or more properties of the cell-free DNA molecules in the sample that encompass the fourth allele.
29. The method according to any one of claims 14 to 28, wherein the determining (E) includes:
determining a third measure of similarity between one or more properties of the cellfree DNA molecules in the sample that encompass the second allele at the first locus and the one or more properties of the cell-free DNA molecules in the sample that encompass the third allele at the second locus;
determining a fourth measure of similarity between one or more properties of the cellfree DNA molecules in the sample that encompass the second allele at the first locus and the one or more properties of the cell-free DNA molecules in the sample that encompass the fourth allele at the second locus.
30. The method of claim 28 or 29, wherein the one or more properties used for the determining (E) include a size-distribution metric.
31. The method according to any one of claims 28 to 30, wherein the one or more properties used for the determining (E) include a read-depth metric based on a frequency of nucleic acid fragment sequences, in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences, encompassing the respective allele.
32. The method according to any one of claims 28 to 31, wherein the one or more properties used for the determining (E) include an allele-frequency metric based on (i) a frequency of occurrence of the respective allele of the respective locus across the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences and (ii) a frequency of occurrence of another respective allele of the respective locus across the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences.
33. The method according to any one of claims 14 to 32, wherein the determining (E) includes segmenting all or a portion of the reference genome.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein the segmenting is performed by a method according to any one of claims 1 to 6.
35. The method according to any one of claims 14 to 34, further comprising:
repeating steps (C) to (E) for each respective locus in the plurality of loci where a threshold probability exists that the copy number of a first allele at the respective locus, in a subpopulation of cells within the cancerous tissue of the subject, is different than the copy number of a second allele at the respective locus, in the subpopulation of cells, as determined by a parametric or non-parametric based classifier that evaluates the one or more properties of the cell-free DNA molecules in the sample that encompass the respective locus; and
outputting a mapping of all allele assignments to respective chromosomes of the subject, thereby phasing all loci in the plurality of loci relative to each other.
36. The method according to any one of claims 14 to 35, wherein each respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences is obtained by generating complementary sequence reads from both ends of a respective cell-free DNA molecule in the population of cell-free DNA, wherein the complementary sequence reads are combined to form a respective sequence read, which is collapsed with other respective sequence reads of the same unique nucleic acid fragment to form the respective nucleic acid fragment sequence.
37. The method according to any one of claims 14 to 36, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a blood sample.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein:
the blood sample is a whole blood sample; and
prior to generating the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences from the whole blood sample, white blood cells are removed from the whole blood sample.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein the method further comprises obtaining a second plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences in electronic form of genomic DNA from the white blood cells removed from the whole blood sample.
40. The method of claim 37, wherein the blood sample is a blood serum sample.
41. The method according to any one of claims 14 to 36, wherein the first biological fluid sample comprises blood, whole blood, plasma, serum, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, fecal, saliva, sweat, tears, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, or peritoneal fluid of the subject.
42. The method according to any one of claims 14 to 36, wherein the first biological fluid sample consists of blood, whole blood, plasma, serum, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, fecal, saliva, sweat, tears, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, or peritoneal fluid of the subject.
43. The method according to any one of claims 14 to 42, wherein the cancerous tissue is breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, renal cancer, uterine cancer, pancreatic cancer, cancer of the esophagus, a lymphoma, head/neck cancer, ovarian cancer, a hepatobiliary cancer, a melanoma, cervical cancer, multiple myeloma, leukemia, thyroid cancer, bladder cancer, gastric cancer, or a combination thereof.
44. The method according to any one of claims 14 to 42, wherein the cancerous tissue is a predetermined stage of a breast cancer, a predetermined stage of a lung cancer, a
predetermined stage of a prostate cancer, a predetermined stage of a colorectal cancer, a predetermined stage of a renal cancer, a predetermined stage of a uterine cancer, a predetermined stage of a pancreatic cancer, a predetermined stage of a cancer of the esophagus, a predetermined stage of a lymphoma, a predetermined stage of a head/neck cancer, a predetermined stage of a ovarian cancer, a predetermined stage of a hepatobiliary cancer, a predetermined stage of a melanoma, a predetermined stage of a cervical cancer, a predetermined stage of a multiple myeloma, a predetermined stage of a leukemia, a predetermined stage of a thyroid cancer, a predetermined stage of a bladder cancer, or a predetermined stage of a gastric cancer.
45. A method of detecting a loss in heterozygosity at a genomic locus in a cancerous tissue of a subject, the method comprising:
at a computer system having one or more processors, and memory storing one or more programs for execution by the one or more processors:
(A) obtaining a dataset comprising a plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences in electronic form from a first biological fluid sample of the subject, wherein each respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences represents all or a portion of a respective cell-free DNA molecule, in a population of cell-free DNA molecules in the first biological fluid sample, the respective nucleic acid fragment sequence encompassing a corresponding locus in a plurality of loci, wherein each locus in the plurality of loci is represented by at least two different germline alleles; (B) compressing the dataset by assigning, for each respective germline allele represented at each locus in the plurality of loci, a size-distribution metric based on a characteristic of the distribution of the fragment lengths of the cell-free DNA molecules in the population of cell-free DNA molecules that encompass the respective germline allele, thereby obtaining a set of size-distribution metrics; and
(C) determining an indicia that a loss of heterozygosity has occurred at a respective locus in the plurality of locus using a parametric or non-parametric based classifier that evaluates one or more properties of the cell-free DNA molecules in the population of cell-free DNA molecules that encompass the respective locus, wherein the one or more properties includes the size-distribution metrics for the corresponding at least two different germline alleles of the respective locus in the set of size-distribution metrics.
46. The method of claim 45, wherein the one or more properties used to determine whether a loss of heterozygosity has occurred at a respective locus further includes an allelefrequency metric based on (i) a frequency of occurrence of a first germline allele representing the respective locus across the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences and (ii) a frequency of occurrence of a second allele representing the respective locus across the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences.
47. The method of claim 45 or 46, wherein the one or more properties used to determine whether a loss of heterozygosity has occurred at a respective locus further includes a readdepth metric based on a frequency of nucleic acid fragment sequences, in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences, associated with the respective locus.
48. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 47, further comprising assigning the detected loss of heterozygosity to a portion of a chromosome containing one of the at least two germline alleles by:
(1) identifying a first locus in the plurality of loci, represented by both (i) a first germline allele having a first size-distribution metric and (ii) a second germline allele having a second size-distribution metric, wherein more than a threshold difference exists between the first size-distribution metric and the second size-distribution metric; and
(2) assigning a loss of heterozygosity at the first locus, wherein: when the first size-distribution metric has a greater magnitude than the second size-distribution metric, the loss of heterozygosity assignment includes assigning the loss of a portion of a chromosome containing the first germline allele at the first locus, and
when the second size-distribution metric has a greater magnitude than the first size-distribution metric, the loss of heterozygosity assignment includes assigning the loss of a portion of a chromosome containing the second germline allele at the first locus.
49. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 48, wherein the determining (C) includes segmenting all or a portion of a reference genome for the species of the subject.
50. The method of claim 49, wherein the segmenting is performed by a method according to any one of claims 1 to 6.
51. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 50, wherein the parametric or nonparametric based classifier is an expectation maximization algorithm.
52. The method of claim 51, wherein the expectation maximization algorithm is seeded with at least a representative size-distribution metric for cell-free DNA fragments
encompassing a variant allele originating from a known source.
53. The method of claim 52, wherein a representative size-distribution metric is for cellfree DNA fragments encompassing a variant allele originating from a cancerous tissue.
54. The method of claim 52 or 53, wherein a representative size-distribution metric is for cell-free DNA fragments encompassing a germline variant allele.
55. The method according to any one of claims 52 to 54, wherein a representative sizedistribution metric is for cell-free DNA fragments encompassing a variant allele originating from clonal hematopoiesis.
56. The method according to any one of claims 52 to 55, wherein the representative sizedistribution metric is based on a fragment length distribution of cell-free DNA in the sample encompassing one or more reference variant alleles with a known origin.
57. The method of claim 56, wherein the origin of a reference variant allele is determined by sequencing the locus corresponding to the reference variant allele in a second biological fluid sample of the subject, wherein the second biological fluid sample is of a different type of biological fluid sample than the first biological fluid sample.
58. The method of claim 57, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a cell-free blood sample and the second biological fluid sample is a white blood cell sample.
59. The method of claim 57, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a cell-free blood sample and the second biological fluid sample is a cancerous tissue biopsy.
60. The method of claim 57, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a cell-free blood sample and the second biological fluid sample is a non-cancerous tissue sample.
61. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 60, wherein the parametric or nonparametric based classifier is an unsupervised clustering algorithm.
62. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 61, wherein each respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences is obtained by generating complementary sequence reads from both ends of a respective cell-free DNA molecule in the population of cell-free DNA, wherein the complementary sequence reads are combined to form a respective sequence read, which is collapsed with other respective sequence reads of the same unique nucleic acid fragment to form the respective nucleic acid fragment sequence.
63. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 62, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a blood sample.
64. The method of claim 63, wherein:
the blood sample is a whole blood sample; and
prior to generating the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences from the whole blood sample, white blood cells are removed from the whole blood sample.
65. The method of claim 64, wherein the method further comprises obtaining a second plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences in electronic form of genomic DNA from the white blood cells removed from the whole blood sample.
66. The method of claim 63, wherein the blood sample is a blood serum sample.
67. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 62, wherein the first biological fluid sample comprises blood, whole blood, plasma, serum, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, fecal, saliva, sweat, tears, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, or peritoneal fluid of the subject.
68. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 62, wherein the first biological fluid sample consists of blood, whole blood, plasma, serum, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, fecal, saliva, sweat, tears, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, or peritoneal fluid of the subject.
69. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 68, wherein the cancerous tissue is breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, renal cancer, uterine cancer, pancreatic cancer, cancer of the esophagus, a lymphoma, head/neck cancer, ovarian cancer, a hepatobiliary cancer, a melanoma, cervical cancer, multiple myeloma, leukemia, thyroid cancer, bladder cancer, gastric cancer, or a combination thereof.
70. The method according to any one of claims 45 to 68, wherein the cancerous tissue is a predetermined stage of a breast cancer, a predetermined stage of a lung cancer, a
predetermined stage of a prostate cancer, a predetermined stage of a colorectal cancer, a predetermined stage of a renal cancer, a predetermined stage of a uterine cancer, a
predetermined stage of a pancreatic cancer, a predetermined stage of a cancer of the esophagus, a predetermined stage of a lymphoma, a predetermined stage of a head/neck cancer, a predetermined stage of a ovarian cancer, a predetermined stage of a hepatobiliary cancer, a predetermined stage of a melanoma, a predetermined stage of a cervical cancer, a predetermined stage of a multiple myeloma, a predetermined stage of a leukemia, a predetermined stage of a thyroid cancer, a predetermined stage of a bladder cancer, or a predetermined stage of a gastric cancer.
71. A method of determining the cellular origin of variant alleles present in a biological fluid sample, the method comprising: at computer system having one or more processors, and memory storing one or more programs for execution by the one or more processors:
(A) obtaining a dataset comprising a first plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences in electronic form from a first biological fluid sample from a subject, wherein each respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the first plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences represents all or a portion of a respective cell-free DNA molecule in a population of cell-free DNA molecules in the first biological fluid sample, the respective nucleic acid fragment sequence encompassing a corresponding locus, in a plurality of loci, represented by at least a reference allele and a variant allele within the population of cell-free DNA molecules;
(B) compressing the dataset by assigning, for each respective allele represented at each locus in the plurality of loci, a size-distribution metric based on a characteristic of the distribution of the fragment lengths of the cell-free DNA molecules in the population of cell-free DNA molecules that encompass the respective allele, thereby obtaining a set of size-distribution metrics; and
(C) assigning each respective variant allele of a respective locus in the plurality of loci either to a first category of alleles originating from non-cancerous cells or to a second category of alleles originating from cancer cells using a parametric or nonparametric based classifier that evaluates one or more properties of the cell-free DNA molecules in the sample that encompass the respective locus, wherein the one or more properties include the size-distribution metric for the variant allele of the respective locus.
72. The method of claim 71, wherein the first biological fluid sample comprises at least cancerous cells, non-cancerous somatic cells, and white blood cells.
73. The method of claim 71 or 72, further comprising:
assigning respective variant alleles of a respective locus in the plurality of loci to a third category of alleles when the variant alleles are identified as germline variants, and eliminating the variant alleles assigned to the third category of alleles from further assignment to the first category of alleles or the second category of alleles.
74. The method of claim 73, wherein a respective variant allele is identified as a germline variant based on a frequency of the variant allele in the population of the species of the subject.
75. The method of claim 73 or 74, wherein a respective variant allele is identified as a germline variant based on sequencing of the locus corresponding to the variant allele in a second biological fluid sample of the subject, wherein the second biological fluid sample is a non-cancerous tissue sample.
76. The method according to any one of claims 73 to 75, wherein a respective variant allele is identified as a germline variant based on an allele-frequency metric that is based on (i) a frequency of occurrence of a first allele of the respective locus across the first plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences and (ii) a frequency of occurrence of a second allele of the respective locus across the first plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences.
77. The method according to any one of claims 73 to 75, wherein the assigning of the variant alleles to the third category of alleles is performed prior to the assigning (C).
78. The method according to any one of claims 73 to 77, wherein the first biological fluid sample is derived from blood, and the method further comprises:
obtaining a second plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences in electronic form from the first biological fluid sample, wherein each respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the second plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences represents a portion of a genome of a white blood cell from the subject; and
after the assignment of variant alleles to the third category of alleles assigning each respective variant allele of a respective locus in the plurality of loci, not assigned to the third category of alleles, to a fourth category of alleles originating from white blood cells when the variant allele is represented in the second plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences.
79. The method according to any one of claims 73 to 78, wherein the assigning (C) of a respective variant allele to the first category of alleles comprises assigning the respective variant allele to one of a plurality of categories of alleles, wherein the plurality of categories of alleles comprises the third category of alleles and the fourth category of alleles.
80. The method according to any one of claims 71 to 79, wherein the one or more properties used to assign the respective variant allele of the respective locus either to the first category or the second category of alleles further includes a size-distribution metric of the reference allele of the respective locus.
81. The method according to any one of claims 71 to 80, wherein the one or more properties used to assign respective variant alleles of a respective locus either to the first category of alleles or to the second category of alleles further includes an allele-frequency metric that is based on (i) a frequency of occurrence of a first allele of the respective locus across the first plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences and (ii) a frequency of occurrence of a second allele of the respective locus across the first plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences.
82. The method according to any one of claims 71 to 81, wherein the one or more properties used to assign respective variant alleles of a respective locus either to the first category of alleles or to the second category of alleles further includes a read-depth metric based on a frequency of nucleic acid fragment sequences in the first plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences encompassing the respective locus.
83. The method according to any one of claims 71 to 82, wherein the parametric or nonparametric based classifier is an expectation maximization algorithm.
84. The method of claim 83, wherein the expectation maximization algorithm is seeded with at least a representative size-distribution metric for cell-free DNA fragments
encompassing a variant allele originating from a known source.
85. The method of claim 84, wherein a representative size-distribution metric is for cellfree DNA fragments encompassing a variant allele originating from a cancerous tissue.
86. The method of claim 84 or 85, wherein a representative size-distribution metric is for cell-free DNA fragments encompassing a germline variant allele.
87. The method according to any one of claims 84 to 86, wherein a representative sizedistribution metric is for cell-free DNA fragments encompassing a variant allele originating from clonal hematopoiesis.
88. The method according to any one of claims 84 to 87, wherein the representative sizedistribution metric is based on a fragment length distribution of cell-free DNA in the sample encompassing one or more reference variant alleles with a known origin.
89. The method of claim 88, wherein the origin of a reference variant allele is determined by sequencing the locus corresponding to the reference variant allele in a second biological fluid sample of the subject, wherein the second biological fluid sample is of a different type of biological fluid sample than the first biological fluid sample.
90. The method of claim 89, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a cell-free blood sample and the second biological fluid sample is a white blood cell sample.
91. The method of claim 89, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a cell-free blood sample and the second biological fluid sample is a cancerous tissue biopsy.
92. The method of claim 89, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a cell-free blood sample and the second biological fluid sample is a non-cancerous tissue sample.
93. The method according to any one of claims 71 to 92, wherein the parametric or nonparametric based classifier is an unsupervised clustering algorithm.
94. The method according to any one of claims 71 to 93, wherein each respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the first plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences is obtained by generating complementary sequence reads from both ends of a respective cell-free DNA molecule in the population of cell-free DNA, wherein the complementary sequence reads are combined to form a respective sequence read, which is collapsed with other respective sequence reads of the same unique nucleic acid fragment to form the respective nucleic acid fragment sequence.
95. The method according to any one of claims 71 to 94, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a blood sample.
96. The method of claim 95, wherein the blood sample is a whole blood sample.
97. The method of claim 95, wherein the blood sample is a blood serum sample.
98. The method according to any one of claims 71 to 94, wherein the first biological fluid sample comprises blood, whole blood, plasma, serum, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, fecal, saliva, sweat, tears, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, or peritoneal fluid of the subject.
99. The method according to any one of claims 71 to 94, wherein the first biological fluid sample consists of blood, whole blood, plasma, serum, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, fecal, saliva, sweat, tears, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, or peritoneal fluid of the subject.
100. The method according to any one of claims 71 to 99, wherein the cancer cells are breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, renal cancer, uterine cancer, pancreatic cancer, cancer of the esophagus, a lymphoma, head/neck cancer, ovarian cancer, a hepatobiliary cancer, a melanoma, cervical cancer, multiple myeloma, leukemia, thyroid cancer, bladder cancer, gastric cancer, or a combination thereof.
101. The method according to any one of claims 71 to 99, wherein the cancerous tissue is a predetermined stage of a breast cancer, a predetermined stage of a lung cancer, a
predetermined stage of a prostate cancer, a predetermined stage of a colorectal cancer, a predetermined stage of a renal cancer, a predetermined stage of a uterine cancer, a predetermined stage of a pancreatic cancer, a predetermined stage of a cancer of the esophagus, a predetermined stage of a lymphoma, a predetermined stage of a head/neck cancer, a predetermined stage of a ovarian cancer, a predetermined stage of a hepatobiliary cancer, a predetermined stage of a melanoma, a predetermined stage of a cervical cancer, a predetermined stage of a multiple myeloma, a predetermined stage of a leukemia, a predetermined stage of a thyroid cancer, a predetermined stage of a bladder cancer, or a predetermined stage of a gastric cancer.
102. A method of identifying and canceling an incorrect mapping of a nucleic acid fragment sequence to a position within a reference genome, the method comprising:
at computer system having one or more processors, and memory storing one or more programs for execution by the one or more processors:
(A) obtaining a dataset comprising a plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences in electronic form from a first biological fluid sample from a subject, wherein each respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences represents all or a portion of a respective cell-free DNA molecule in a population of cell-free DNA molecules in the first biological fluid sample, the respective nucleic acid fragment sequence encompassing a corresponding locus, in a plurality of loci, represented by at least two different alleles within the population of cell-free DNA molecules; (B) mapping each respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences to a position within a reference genome for the species of the subject, wherein the position within the reference genome encompasses a putative locus in the plurality of loci encompassed by the population of cell-free DNA molecules, based on sequence identity shared between the respective nucleic acid fragment sequence and the nucleic acid sequence at the position within the reference genome;
(C) compressing the dataset by assigning, for each respective allele of each respective locus in the plurality of loci, a size-distribution metric corresponding to a characteristic of the distribution of the fragment lengths of the cell-free DNA molecules that are both (i) represented by a respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences that encompass the respective allele and (ii) mapped to a same corresponding position within the reference genome, thereby obtaining a set of sizedistribution metrics;
(D) determining a confidence metric for the mapping of respective nucleic acid fragment sequences encompassing an allele of a respective locus to a corresponding position within the reference genome encompassing a putative allele by using a parametric or non-parametric based classifier that evaluates one or more properties of the cell-free DNA molecules that are both (i) represented by a respective nucleic acid fragment sequence that encompasses the respective allele and (ii) mapped to the corresponding position within the reference genome, wherein the one or more properties include the size-distribution metric for the respective allele; and
(E) when the confidence metric fails to satisfy a threshold measure of confidence, canceling the mapping of the respective nucleic acid fragment sequences to the corresponding position within the reference genome.
103. The method of claim 102, the method further including generating a sequence alignment between the respective nucleic acid fragment sequence and the reference genome.
104. The method of claim 102 or 103, wherein the determining (D) includes comparing the size-distribution metric for the respective allele to one or more reference size-distributions metrics.
105. The method according to any one of claims 102 to 104, wherein the one or more properties used to determine the confidence metric for the mapping further includes an allelefrequency metric that is based on (i) a frequency of occurrence of a first allele of the respective locus and (ii) a frequency of occurrence of a second allele of the respective locus across the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences.
106. The method according to any one of claims 102 to 105, wherein the one or more properties used to determine the confidence metric for the mapping further includes a readdepth metric based on a frequency of nucleic acid fragment sequences in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences encompassing the respective locus.
107. The method according to any one of claims 102 to 106, wherein the parametric or non-parametric based classifier is an expectation maximization algorithm.
108. The method of claim 107, wherein the expectation maximization algorithm is seeded with at least a representative size-distribution metric for cell-free DNA fragments encompassing a variant allele originating from a known source.
109. The method of claim 108, wherein a representative size-distribution metric is for cellfree DNA fragments encompassing a variant allele originating from a cancerous tissue.
110. The method of claim 109, wherein the cancerous tissue is breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, renal cancer, uterine cancer, pancreatic cancer, cancer of the esophagus, a lymphoma, head/neck cancer, ovarian cancer, a hepatobiliary cancer, a melanoma, cervical cancer, multiple myeloma, leukemia, thyroid cancer, bladder cancer, gastric cancer, or a combination thereof.
111. The method according to any one of claims 108 to 110, wherein a representative sizedistribution metric is for cell-free DNA fragments encompassing a germline variant allele.
112. The method according to any one of claims 108 to 111, wherein a representative sizedistribution metric is for cell-free DNA fragments encompassing a variant allele originating from clonal hematopoiesis.
113. The method according to any one of claims 108 to 112, wherein the representative size-distribution metric is based on a fragment length distribution of cell-free DNA in the sample encompassing one or more reference variant alleles with a known origin.
114. The method of claim 113, wherein the origin of a reference variant allele is determined by sequencing the locus corresponding to the reference variant allele in a second biological fluid sample of the subject, wherein the second biological fluid sample is of a different type of biological fluid sample than the first biological fluid sample.
115. The method of claim 114, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a cell-free blood sample and the second biological fluid sample is a white blood cell sample.
116. The method of claim 114, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a cell-free blood sample and the second biological fluid sample is a cancerous tissue biopsy.
117. The method of claim 116, wherein the cancerous tissue is breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, renal cancer, uterine cancer, pancreatic cancer, cancer of the esophagus, a lymphoma, head/neck cancer, ovarian cancer, a hepatobiliary cancer, a melanoma, cervical cancer, multiple myeloma, leukemia, thyroid cancer, bladder cancer, gastric cancer, or a combination thereof.
118. The method of claim 116, wherein the cancerous tissue is a predetermined stage of a breast cancer, a predetermined stage of a lung cancer, a predetermined stage of a prostate cancer, a predetermined stage of a colorectal cancer, a predetermined stage of a renal cancer, a predetermined stage of a uterine cancer, a predetermined stage of a pancreatic cancer, a predetermined stage of a cancer of the esophagus, a predetermined stage of a lymphoma, a predetermined stage of a head/neck cancer, a predetermined stage of a ovarian cancer, a predetermined stage of a hepatobiliary cancer, a predetermined stage of a melanoma, a predetermined stage of a cervical cancer, a predetermined stage of a multiple myeloma, a predetermined stage of a leukemia, a predetermined stage of a thyroid cancer, a
predetermined stage of a bladder cancer, or a predetermined stage of a gastric cancer.
119. The method of claim 114, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a cell-free blood sample and the second biological fluid sample is a non-cancerous tissue sample.
120. The method according to any one of claims 102 to 119, wherein each respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences is obtained by generating complementary sequence reads from both ends of a respective cellfree DNA molecule in the population of cell-free DNA, wherein the complementary sequence reads are combined to form a respective sequence read, which is collapsed with other respective sequence reads of the same unique nucleic acid fragment to form the respective nucleic acid fragment sequence.
121. The method according to any one of claims 102 to 120, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a blood sample.
122. The method of claim 121, wherein:
the blood sample is a whole blood sample; and
prior to generating the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences from the whole blood sample, white blood cells are removed from the whole blood sample.
123. The method of claim 122, wherein the method further comprises obtaining a second plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences in electronic form of genomic DNA from the white blood cells removed from the whole blood sample.
124. The method of claim 121, wherein the blood sample is a blood serum sample.
125. The method according to any one of claims 102 to 120, wherein the first biological fluid sample comprises blood, whole blood, plasma, serum, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, fecal, saliva, sweat, tears, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, or peritoneal fluid of the subject.
126. The method according to any one of claims 102 to 120, wherein the first biological fluid sample consists of blood, whole blood, plasma, serum, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, fecal, saliva, sweat, tears, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, or peritoneal fluid of the subject.
127. A method of validating the use of genotypic data from a particular genomic locus in a subject classifier for classifying a cancer condition for a species, the method comprising: at computer system having one or more processors, and memory storing one or more programs for execution by the one or more processors:
(A) obtaining a subject classifier that uses data from the particular genomic locus to classify the cancer condition for a query subject of the species; (B) obtaining, for each respective validation subject in a plurality of validation subjects of the species: (i) a cancer condition and (ii) a validation genotypic data construct that includes one or more genotypic characteristics, thereby obtaining a set of cancer conditions and a correlated set of validation genotypic data constructs, wherein:
each genotypic data construct in the set of genotypic data constructs is obtained from a respective first plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences in electronic form from a corresponding first biological fluid sample from a respective validation subject in the plurality of validation subjects,
each respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the respective first plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences represents all or a portion of a respective cellfree DNA molecule in a population of cell-free DNA molecules in the corresponding biological fluid sample, the respective nucleic acid fragment sequence encompassing a corresponding locus, in a plurality of loci, represented by at least two different alleles within the population of cell-free DNA molecules, and
the one or more genotypic characteristics in the validation genotypic data construct include a size-distribution metric corresponding to a characteristic of the distribution of the fragment lengths of the cell-free DNA molecules that encompass a respective allele of the particular genomic locus; and
(C) determining a confidence metric for use of genotypic data from the particular genomic locus in the subject classifier by using a parametric or non -parametric based test classifier that evaluates the size distribution metric for the respective allele in each respective validation genotype data construct and each correlated cancer status in the set of cancer conditions.
128. The method of claim 127, wherein the subject classifier is trained against one or more genotypic characteristics from a plurality of training genotypic data constructs obtained from a plurality of training subjects of the species with a known cancer status, and wherein the one or more genotypic characteristics do not include a size-distribution metric corresponding to a characteristic of the distribution of fragments lengths of cell-free DNA encompassing the genomic locus in samples from the training subjects.
129. The method of claim 127 or 128, wherein each respective training genotypic data construct in the plurality of training genotypic data sets is obtained from a corresponding second plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences in electronic form from a corresponding biological fluid sample from a respective training subject in the plurality of training subjects, wherein each respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the corresponding second plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences represents all or a portion of a respective cell-free DNA molecule in a population of cell-free DNA molecules in the corresponding biological fluid sample, the respective nucleic acid fragment sequence encompassing a corresponding locus, in a plurality of loci, represented by at least two different alleles within the population of cellfree DNA molecules.
130. The method according to any one of claims 127 to 129, wherein the parametric or non-parametric based classifier is an expectation maximization algorithm.
131. The method of claim 130, wherein the expectation maximization algorithm is seeded with at least a representative size-distribution metric for cell-free DNA fragments
encompassing a variant allele originating from a known source.
132. The method of claim 131, wherein a representative size-distribution metric is for cellfree DNA fragments encompassing a variant allele originating from a cancerous tissue.
133. The method of claim 130 or 131, wherein a representative size-distribution metric is for cell-free DNA fragments encompassing a germline variant allele.
134. The method according to any one of claims 130 to 133, wherein a representative sizedistribution metric is for cell-free DNA fragments encompassing a variant allele originating from clonal hematopoiesis.
135. The method according to any one of claims 131 to 134, wherein the representative size-distribution metric for a respective validation genotypic data construct is based on a fragment length distribution of cell-free DNA, in the corresponding biological fluid sample from the respective validation subject, encompassing one or more reference variant alleles with a known origin.
136. The method of claim 135, wherein the origin of a respective reference variant allele in the one or more reference variant alleles is determined by sequencing the locus corresponding to the reference variant allele in a second biological fluid sample of the validation subject, wherein the second biological fluid sample is of a different type of biological fluid sample than the first biological fluid sample.
137. The method of claim 136, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a cell-free blood sample and the second biological fluid sample is a white blood cell sample.
138. The method of claim 136, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a cell-free blood sample and the second biological fluid sample is a cancerous tissue biopsy.
139. The method of claim 138, wherein the cancerous tissue is breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, renal cancer, uterine cancer, pancreatic cancer, cancer of the esophagus, a lymphoma, head/neck cancer, ovarian cancer, a hepatobiliary cancer, a melanoma, cervical cancer, multiple myeloma, leukemia, thyroid cancer, bladder cancer, gastric cancer, or a combination thereof.
140. The method of claim 138, wherein the cancerous tissue is a predetermined stage of a breast cancer, a predetermined stage of a lung cancer, a predetermined stage of a prostate cancer, a predetermined stage of a colorectal cancer, a predetermined stage of a renal cancer, a predetermined stage of a uterine cancer, a predetermined stage of a pancreatic cancer, a predetermined stage of a cancer of the esophagus, a predetermined stage of a lymphoma, a predetermined stage of a head/neck cancer, a predetermined stage of a ovarian cancer, a predetermined stage of a hepatobiliary cancer, a predetermined stage of a melanoma, a predetermined stage of a cervical cancer, a predetermined stage of a multiple myeloma, a predetermined stage of a leukemia, a predetermined stage of a thyroid cancer, a
predetermined stage of a bladder cancer, or a predetermined stage of a gastric cancer.
141. The method of claim 136, wherein the first biological fluid sample is a cell-free blood sample and the second biological fluid sample is a non-cancerous tissue sample.
142. The method according to any one of claims 127 to 140, wherein the cancer condition classified by the subject classifier is a primary origin of a cancer.
143. The method according to any one of claims 127 to 140, wherein the cancer condition classified by the subject classifier is a stage of a cancer.
144. The method according to any one of claims 127 to 140, wherein the cancer condition classified by the subject classifier is an initial cancer diagnosis.
145. The method according to any one of claims 127 to 140, wherein the cancer condition classified by the subject classifier is a cancer prognosis.
146. The method according to any one of claims 71 to 92, wherein each respective nucleic acid fragment sequence in the first plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences is obtained by generating complementary sequence reads from both ends of a respective cell-free DNA molecule in the population of cell-free DNA, wherein the complementary sequence reads are combined to form a respective sequence read, which is collapsed with other respective sequence reads of the same unique nucleic acid fragment to form the respective nucleic acid fragment sequence.
147. The method according to any one of claims 127 to 145, wherein the first biological fluid sample from the respective validation subject is a blood sample.
148. The method of claim 147, wherein:
the blood sample is a whole blood sample; and
prior to generating the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences from the whole blood sample, white blood cells are removed from the whole blood sample.
149. The method of claim 148, wherein the method further comprises obtaining a second plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences in electronic form of genomic DNA from the white blood cells removed from the whole blood sample.
150. The method of claim 147, wherein the blood sample is a blood serum sample.
151. The method according to any one of claims 127 to 145, wherein the first biological fluid sample comprises blood, whole blood, plasma, serum, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, fecal, saliva, sweat, tears, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, or peritoneal fluid of the respective validation subject.
152. The method according to any one of claims 127 to 145, wherein the first biological fluid sample consists of blood, whole blood, plasma, serum, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, fecal, saliva, sweat, tears, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, or peritoneal fluid of the respective validation subject.
153. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the species is human.
154. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the subject has not been diagnosed as having cancer.
155. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of nucleic acid fragment sequences is more than 1000 nucleic acid fragment sequences, more than 3000 nucleic acid fragment sequences, or more than 5000 nucleic acid fragment sequences
156. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of loci is selected from a predetermined set of loci that includes less than all loci in the genome of the subject.
157. The method of claim 156, wherein the predetermined set of loci comprises at least 100 loci.
158. The method of claim 156, wherein the predetermined set of loci comprises at least 500 loci.
159. The method of claim 156, wherein the predetermined set of loci comprises at least 1000 loci.
160. The method of claim 156, wherein the predetermined set of loci comprises at least 5000 loci.
161. The method according to any one of claims 156 to 160, wherein the average coverage rate of nucleic acid fragment sequences of the predetermined set of loci taken from the sample is at least 500x.
162. The method according to any one of claims 156 to 160, wherein the average coverage rate of nucleic acid fragment sequences of the predetermined set of loci taken from the sample is at least lOOOx, 2000x, 2500x, or 5000x.
163. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 162, wherein the plurality of loci is selected from all loci in the genome of the subject.
164. The method of claim 163, wherein an average coverage rate of nucleic acid fragment sequences across the genome of the subject is at least 20x.
165. The method of claim 163, wherein an average coverage rate of nucleic acid fragment sequences across the genome of the subject is at least 30x, 50x, or 75x.
166. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least two different alleles of a respective locus include a variant allele that is a single nucleotide polymorphism relative to a reference allele for the locus.
167. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least two different alleles of a respective locus include a variant allele that is a deletion of twenty-five nucleotides or less, encompassing the respective locus, relative to a reference allele for the locus.
168. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least two different alleles of a respective locus include a variant allele that is a single nucleotide deletion relative to a reference allele for the locus.
169. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least two different alleles of a respective locus include a variant allele that is an insertion of twenty-five nucleotides or less, encompassing the respective locus, relative to a reference allele for the locus.
170. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least two different alleles of a respective locus include a variant allele that is a single nucleotide insertion relative to a reference allele for the locus.
171. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the sizedistribution metric is a measure of central tendency of length across the distribution.
172. The method of claim 171, wherein the measure of central tendency of length across the distribution is an arithmetic mean, weighted mean, midrange, midhinge, trimean, Winsorized mean, median, or mode of the distribution.
173. An electronic device, comprising:
one or more processors;
memory; and
one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including instructions for performing any of the methods of claims 1 to 172.
174. A computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by an electronic device with one or more processors and a memory cause the device to perform any of the methods of claims 1 to 172.
</claims>
</document>
