<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/107,A61B5/11,G06K9/66,G16H10/60,G16H30/40,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SPIRAL PHYSICAL THERAPY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOXEY, STEPHEN
STEIN, LEE
STEIN, SPENCER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66996420
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A DIGITAL PLATFORM TO IDENTIFY HEALTH CONDITIONS AND THERAPEUTIC INTERVENTIONS USING AN AUTOMATIC AND DISTRIBUTED ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure is directed to method and system for automatic, distributed, computer-aided, and intelligent data collection/analytics, health monitoring, health condition identification, and patient preventive/remedial health advocacy. The system integrates (1) distributed patient health data collection devices, (2) centralized or distributed data servers running various intelligent and predictive data analytics engines for health screening, assessment, patient health condition identification, and patient preventive/remedial health advocacy, (3) specifically designed data structures including quantized health indicator vectors, patient health condition identification matrices and patient health condition vectors, (4) portal servers configured to interface with (5) distributed physician terminal devices and (6) distributed patient terminal devices for delivering health condition identification, health interventions and patient preventive/remedial health advocacy, and for monitoring and tracking patient activities. The various intelligent and predictive engines are configured to learn and extract hidden features and correlations from a large amount of data obtained from the distributed data collection devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for automatic and intelligent patient health condition identification (PHCI) and patient preventive/remedial health advocacy (PPRHA), comprising:
a data repository;
a communication interface; and
a processing circuitry in communication with the data repository and the communication interface;
wherein the processing circuitry is configured to:
receive 3D topographical data of a target patient in a form of body mesh scan from one of a plurality of distributed 3D scanners via the communication interface;
execute a data segmentation model trained based on a first machine learning algorithm to automatically identify a predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient and identify a set of representations corresponding to the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient; determine a vertical reference line and a transverse plane from the 3D topographical data;
predefine a quantized health indicator vector space associated with health of the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient;
associate each of a plurality of predetermined health conditions with quantized values in the quantized health indicator vector space to generate a quantized PHCI matrix;
derive a health indicator vector in the quantized health indicator vector space based on the set of representations, the vertical reference line, and the transverse plane;
quantize the health indicator vector into the quantized health indicator vector space to obtain a quantized health indicator vector;
store the quantized health indicator vector and the 3D topographical data in the data repository;
automatically generate a patient health condition (PHC) vector comprising a plurality of component each corresponding to one of the plurality of predetermined health conditions; execute a PPRHA model trained using a second machine learning algorithm; and
automatically generate a PPRHA item by inputting the PHC vector into the PPRHA model.
2. The system of claim 1 , wherein:
the quantized health indicator vector space comprises dimensions associated with tilt deviations and shift deviations in front-view and shift deviations in side-view of the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient; and
wherein the PHC vector comprises a binary PHC vector comprising dimensions each represented by a binary value.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein:
the predetermined health conditions comprises a plurality of predetermined posture deviation conditions; and
wherein the PPRHA item comprises a physical therapeutic exercise.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the set of representations comprises single point coordinates, wherein each of the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient is associated with one or more single-point representations.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the tilt deviations in front-view of a body landmark among the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient is determined based on angles between the vertical reference line and a line formed by two single-point representations of the body landmark.
6. The system of claim 2, wherein:
the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient comprises head, hips, shoulders, knees, and underbusts; and
wherein the tilt deviations and shift deviations in front-view comprises a head shift, a head tilt, a shoulder shift, a shoulder tilt, an underbust shift, an underbust tilt, a hip shift, a hip tilt, a knee shift, and a knee tilt.
7. The system of claim 1 , wherein the set of representations comprises at least one circumferential attribute.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the at least one circumferential attribute comprises circumferences of two body landmarks among the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient, and wherein the quantized health indicator vector space comprises at least a dimension representing a quantized ratio between the circumferences of the two body landmarks. 9. The system of claim 1 , further comprising a portal server for providing a first graphical user interface to a patient terminal device for displaying the PPRHA item to the target patient.
10. The system of claim 1 , further comprising a portal server for providing a second graphical user interface to a physician terminal device, wherein:
the second graphical user interface is configured to display the PPRHA item in the physician terminal device and to enable a physician to modify the PPRHA item to generate a modified PPRHA item; and
wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to record the modified PPRHA item in the data repository.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the portal server is further configured to provide a first graphical user interface to a patient terminal device for displaying the modified PPRHA item to the target patient.
12. The system of claim 11 , wherein:
the PPRHA item comprises a therapeutic exercise and the modified PPRHA item comprises a modified therapeutic exercise; and
the first graphical user interface is further configured to provide monitoring functions for tracking execution of the modified therapeutic exercise by the target patient.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the first graphical user interface comprises clickable buttons for the target patient to report execution of the modified therapeutic exercise. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the data repository further stores demo videos and wherein the first graphical user interface is configured to provide option to select and play demo videos corresponding to the modified therapeutic exercise.
15. The system of claim 1 , further comprising a portal server, wherein:
the PPRHA model is periodically retrained based on updated training data as a result of a plurality of feedbacks;
the PPRHA comprises a therapeutic exercise; and
the plurality of feedbacks comprises, with predetermined weights, at least one of:
rescan of 3D topographical data of the target patient following execution of the therapeutic exercise by the target patient as monitored by the portal server via a first graphical user interface on a patient terminal device;
modification of the therapeutic exercise by a physician as monitored by the portal server via a second graphical user interface on a physician terminal device;
self-evaluation following execution of the therapeutic exercise by the target patient as collected by the portal server via the first graphical user interface on the patient terminal device;
images or videos of the target patient taken by the patient terminal device while the target patient is executing the therapeutic exercise as reported to the portal server from the patient terminal device; or
records of viewing, by the target patient, demo videos provided to the patient terminal device via the first graphical user interface. 16. A method for automatic and intelligent patient health condition identification
(PHCI) and patient preventive/remedial health advocacy (PPRHA) by a processing circuitry in communication with a data repository and a communication interface, comprising: receiving 3D topographical data in a form of body mesh scan of a target patient from one of a plurality of distributed 3D scanners via the communication interface; executing a data segmentation model trained based on a first machine learning algorithm to automatically identify a predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient and identify a set of representations corresponding to the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient;
determining a vertical reference line and a transverse plane from the 3D topographical data;
predefining a quantized health indicator vector space associated with health of the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient;
associating each of a plurality of predetermined health conditions with quantized values in the quantized health indicator vector space to generate a quantized PHCI matrix;
deriving a health indicator vector in the quantized health indicator vector space based on the set of representations, the vertical reference line, and the transverse plane;
quantizing the health indicator vector into the quantized health indicator vector space to obtain a quantized health indicator vector;
storing the quantized health indicator vector and the 3D topographical data in the data repository;
automatically generating a patient health condition (PHC) vector comprising a plurality of component each corresponding to one of the plurality of predetermined health conditions;
executing a PPRHA model trained using a second machine learning algorithm; and
automatically generating a PPRHA item by inputting the PHC vector into the PPRHA model.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein:
the quantized health indicator vector space comprises dimensions associated with tilt deviations and shift deviations in front-view and shift deviations in side-view of the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient;
the predetermined medical conditions comprises a plurality of predetermined posture deviation conditions; and the PPRHA item comprises a physical therapeutic exercise.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein:
the set of representations comprises single-point coordinates, wherein each of the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient is associated with one or more single-point representations; and
the tilt deviations in front-view of a body landmark among the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient is determined based on angles between the vertical reference line and a line formed by two single-point representations of the body landmark.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein:
the PPRHA model is periodically retrained with updated training data based on a plurality of feedbacks; and
the PPRHA item comprises a therapeutic exercise.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the plurality of feedbacks comprises, with predetermined weights, at least one of:
rescan of 3D topographical data of the target patient following execution of the therapeutic exercise by the target patient as monitored by a portal server via a first graphical user interface on a patient terminal device;
modification of the therapeutic exercise by a physician as monitored by the portal server via a second graphical user interface on a physician terminal device; self-evaluation following execution of the therapeutic exercise by the target patient as collected by the portal server via the first graphical user interface on the patient terminal device;
images or videos of the target patient taken by the patient terminal device while the target patient is executing the therapeutic exercise as reported to the portal server from the patient terminal device; or
records of viewing, by the target patient, demo videos provided to the patient terminal device via the first graphical user interface.
</claims>
</document>
