<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H30/40,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMID
</assignee>

<inventors>
PEDRIZZETTI, GIANNI
TONTI, GIOVANNI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65955153
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR CALCULATING THE FORCE EXCHANGED BETWEEN A FLUID AND A SURROUNDING CONTAINER, PARTICULARLY IN CARDIOVASCULAR IMAGING
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure relates to a method for determining one or more parameters related to the forces exchanged between a fluid and a surrounding container from sequences of images of the boundary surface of such container, the method comprising: a) expressing the boundary surface S(t) of the container as a series of meshes s, each mesh identified by a position vector x(s,t); b) calculating, or receiving in input, the instantaneous velocity vector v(s,t) at each position x(s,t); c) calculating, or receiving in input, the vector n(s,t) normal to the surface at each position x(s,t); d) calculating at each position x(s,t) a surface parameter f(s,t) as a function of the velocity vector v(s,t), the position vector x(s,t) and the normal vector n(s,t); e) deriving the parameter or the parameters related to the forces exchanged between the fluid and the surrounding container from such surface parameter f(s,t). A corresponding system and computer program are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1 . Method for determining one or more parameters related to the forces exchanged between a fluid and a surrounding container from sequences of images of the boundary surface of such container, the method comprising:
a) expressing the boundary surface S(t) of the container as a series of meshes s, each mesh identified by a position vector x(s,t);
b) calculating, or receiving in input, the instantaneous velocity vector v(s,t) at each position x(s,t);
c) calculating, or receiving in input, the vector n(s,t) normal to the surface at each position x(s,t);
d) calculating at each position x(s,t) a surface parameter f(s,t) as a function of the velocity vector v(s,t), the position vector x(s,t) and the normal vector n(s,t);
e) deriving the parameter or the parameters related to the forces exchanged between the fluid and the surrounding container from such surface parameter f(s,t).
2. Method according to claim 1 , wherein step e) comprises integrating the surface parameter f(s,t) over the surface boundary S(t).
3. Method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein step e) comprises determining the projection of such surface parameter f(s,t) on the normal n(s,t) to the surface at each position x(s,t).
4. Method according to any preceding claim, wherein step d) comprises calculating the surface parameter f(s,t) as
5. Method according to any preceding claim, wherein step e) comprises calculating the force-related parameter as a local force vector f(x,t) where p is the density of the fluid.
6. Method according to any preceding claim, wherein step e) comprises calculating a force vector F(t) as
7. Method according to any preceding claim, wherein step e) comprises calculating as parameter the normal component of the local force vector, related in the integral sense to pressure distribution p(x,t), as
8. Method according to any preceding claim, wherein step e) comprises calculating as parameter the tangential component or the norm of the local force vector f(x,t).
9. Method according to any preceding claim, wherein step e) comprises normalizing the parameter or the parameters over the volume of the container V(t).
10. Method according to claim 9, wherein the volume of the container V(t) is calculated as
11. Method according to any preceding claim, wherein step a) comprises expressing the boundary surface S(t) of the container as a series of geometrical figures like polygons, particularly triangles, circles, ellipses, with the position vector x(s,t) identifying the center of such figures.
12. Method according to any preceding claim, wherein the container has a solid part having surface Si and at least one aperture having surface S2, step b) comprising receiving in input the velocity of the fluid crossing the open boundary surface S2 or calculating as velocity vector v the average normal velocity across the aperture fs v n dS as
13. Method according to any preceding claim, wherein the sequences of images of the boundary surface of the container are obtained by operating a threedimensional reconstruction of the container boundary surface based on bidimensional or three-dimensional image datasets.
14. Method according to any preceding claim, wherein the container is the heart, particularly a chamber of the heart, the fluid the blood and the forces exchanged between the fluid and the container the hemodynamic forces inside the heart.
15. Method according to claims 14, wherein those parts of the boundary surface corresponding to at least one heart valve are segmented as single circular or polygon mesh.
16. A computer product directly loadable in the memory of a digital computer and comprising software code portions for performing the method according to any of the preceding claims when the product is run on a computer.
17. System (1 ) for determining one or more parameters related to the forces exchanged between a fluid and a surrounding container, characterized in comprising:
a) a first input (101 ) for receiving one or more sequences of twodimensional or three-dimensional images of the container;
b) memory (201 ) to store program instructions;
c) a processing unit (301 );
d) a graphical user interface (401 ) configured to receive user inputs;
e) an output (501 ) for outputting force-related parameters in numeric and/or graphical format,
characterized in that such processing unit (301 ) is configured to execute the program instructions to:
a) make a three-dimensional reconstruction of the container boundary surface S(t);
b) divide the boundary surface S(t) of the container in a series of meshes s;
c) associate to each mesh a position vector x(s,t);
d) calculate the instantaneous velocity vector v(s,t) at each position x(s,t); e) calculate the vector n(s,t) normal to the surface at each position x(s,t); f) calculate at each position x(s,t) a surface parameter f(s,t) as a function of the velocity vector v(s,t), the position vector x(s,t) and the normal vector n(s,t);
g) derive the parameter or the parameters related to the forces exchanged between the fluid and the surrounding container from such surface parameter f(s,t);
h) output values based on such parameter or parameters.
18. System (1 ) according to claim 17, characterized in that it is provided in combination with an echographic, a CT or an MRI apparatus (2) for acquiring sequences of two-dimensional or three-dimensional images of the container to be transferred to the first input (101 ) of the device (1 ).
19. System (1 ) according to claim 17 or 18, further comprising a second input (601 ) for receiving the values of the velocity of the fluid at apertures crossing the boundary surface of the container, the processing unit (301 ) being configured to use such values as the velocity of the meshes covering such apertures.
20. System (1 ) according to claim 19, characterized in that it is provided in combination with an echographic apparatus having Doppler capabilities or a phase-contrast MRI apparatus (3) for acquiring velocity values of the fluid crossing apertures of the container to be transferred to the second input (601 ).
21 . System (1 ) according to any claim 17 to 20, characterized in being configured to be interfaced, or provided in combination, with an imaging apparatus (2) for acquiring two-dimensional or three-dimensional images of the heart of a subject, the processing unit (301 ) being configured to evaluate the geometry of the endocardial border and, optionally, the velocity of blood across the mitral and aortic valves of the subject.
</claims>
</document>
