<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/0488,A61N1/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AVATION MEDICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
TRANCHINA, BENJAMIN, A.
GEBREKIDAN, Maekele
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72520352
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM FOR IDENTIFYING A TARGET MEDICAL DEVICE IMPLANT SITE
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus for delivering an electrical microstimulator having a microstimulator body comprises a handle having a handle body. An elongate delivery rod includes a delivery sleeve and a stretching shaft, with one of the delivery sleeve and the stretching shaft configured for reciprocal movement with respect to the handle body, and the other extending longitudinally from, and stationary relative to, the handle body. The delivery sleeve selectively engages a fixation aperture of a microstimulator docking feature having a fixation base and a fixation member, concurrent with the stretching shaft engaging a proximal end of the microstimulator body. Longitudinal motion of the delivery sleeve with respect to the stretching shaft causes longitudinal motion of the fixation base to responsively move the fixation member between substantially linear and substantially coiled states. A method of delivering an electrical microstimulator to a target implant site of a patient's body is also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1 . An apparatus for delivering an electrical microstimulator having a microstimulator body, the apparatus comprising:
a handle having a handle body,
an elongate delivery rod extending longitudinally from the handle body, the delivery rod including a delivery sleeve and a stretching shaft, with a chosen one of the delivery sleeve and the stretching shaft being configured for reciprocal movement with respect to the handle body and the other one of the delivery sleeve and the stretching shaft extending longitudinally from, and stationary relative to, the handle body, the stretching shaft being telescopically engaged with the delivery sleeve for cooperatively placing and maintaining the electrical microstimulator in a delivery configuration; and
a microstimulator docking feature for selectively maintaining the electrical microstimulator on the delivery rod, the microstimulator docking feature including at least one docking sleeve associated with the electrical microstimulator, at least one fixation member movable between substantially linear and substantially coiled states and laterally interposed between the electrical microstimulator and the docking sleeve, and a fixation base attached to a proximal end of the fixation member, the fixation base having a fixation aperture; and
wherein the docking sleeve restricts lateral motion of the fixation member with respect to the electrical microstimulator while permitting longitudinal motion of the fixation member with respect to the electrical microstimulator; wherein the delivery sleeve selectively engages the fixation aperture concurrent with the stretching shaft engaging a proximal end of the microstimulator body; and
wherein longitudinal motion of the delivery sleeve with respect to the stretching shaft causes longitudinal motion of the fixation base to responsively move the fixation member between the substantially linear and substantially coiled states.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 , including an anchor tester associated with the handle body for selectively sensing motion of the electrical microstimulator under influence of an applied predetermined longitudinal testing force.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 , including a user interface having a plurality of user-actuated controls to selectively and mechanically manipulate at least a portion of at least one of the delivery rod and the microstimulator docking feature.
4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the anchor tester interfaces with an anchor indicator to communicate to a user sensed motion of the electrical microstimulator under the influence of the predetermined longitudinal testing force.
5. The apparatus of claim 1 , wherein the delivery sleeve includes a sleeve maintenance feature to engage the fixation aperture to cooperatively facilitate longitudinal motion of a portion of the microstimulator docking feature with respect to the microstimulator body.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the sleeve maintenance feature engages with the fixation aperture to cooperatively form a bayonet connection.
7. The apparatus of claim 1 , wherein the stretching shaft engages a body feature at a proximal end of the microstimulator body to maintain relative position of the stretching shaft and the microstimulator body.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the stretching shaft engages with the body feature to cooperatively form a bayonet connection.
9. The apparatus of claim 1 , wherein at least one of the delivery sleeve selectively engaging the fixation aperture and the stretching shaft engaging a proximal end of the microstimulator body occurs via rotational motion of the delivery sleeve and/or stretching shaft relative to the respective fixation aperture and/or microstimulator body.
10. A method of delivering an electrical microstimulator to a target implant site of a patient's body, the method comprising:
providing a insertion tool, the insertion tool including
a handle having a handle body,
an elongate delivery rod extending longitudinally from the handle body, the delivery rod including a delivery sleeve and a stretching shaft, with a chosen one of the delivery sleeve and the stretching shaft being configured for reciprocal movement with respect to the handle body and the other one of the delivery sleeve and the stretching shaft extending longitudinally from, and stationary relative to, the handle body, the stretching shaft being telescopically engaged with the delivery sleeve for cooperatively placing and maintaining the electrical microstimulator in a delivery configuration, and
a microstimulator docking feature including at least one docking sleeve associated with the electrical microstimulator, at least one fixation member movable between substantially linear and substantially coiled states and laterally interposed between the electrical microstimulator and the docking sleeve, and a fixation base attached to a proximal end of the fixation member, the fixation base having a fixation aperture, the microstimulator docking feature selectively maintaining the electrical microstimulator on the delivery rod, and
an anchor tester associated with the handle body;
engaging the fixation aperture with the delivery sleeve concurrently with engaging a proximal end of the microstimulator body with the stretching shaft;
with the docking sleeve, restricting lateral motion of the fixation member with respect to the electrical microstimulator while permitting longitudinal motion of the fixation member with respect to the electrical microstimulator;
placing the fixation member in the substantially linear state by moving the delivery sleeve longitudinally proximally with respect to the stretching shaft to cause proximal motion of the fixation base with respect to the microstimulator body and thus pull the fixation member into a substantially straight configuration;
carrying the electrical microstimulator, maintained on the delivery rod by the microstimulator docking feature and with the fixation member in the substantially linear state, to the target implant site; with the electrical microstimulator at the target implant site, moving the stretching shaft longitudinally distally with respect to the delivery sleeve to cause distal motion of the fixation base with respect to the microstimulator body and thus release at least a portion of the fixation member into a curved configuration;
engaging patient tissue adjacent the target implant site with the fixation member at least partially in the substantially coiled state;
with the electrical microstimulator at least partially maintained on the delivery rod by the microstimulator docking feature and the fixation member engaging patient tissue adjacent the target implant site, applying a predetermined longitudinal testing force to the electrical microstimulator via the anchor tester;
sensing motion of the electrical microstimulator under influence of the applied predetermined longitudinal testing force to determine anchoring security of the electrical microstimulator at the target implant site;
communicating anchoring security of the electrical microstimulator at the target implant site to a user of the insertion tool; and
releasing the electrical microstimulator from the delivery rod at the target implant site by manipulating the delivery sleeve to release the fixation aperture with the delivery sleeve concurrently with releasing the proximal end of the
microstimulator body from the stretching shaft.
1 1. The method of claim 10, wherein
engaging the fixation aperture with the delivery sleeve includes manipulating a user-actuated control in mechanical communication with the delivery sleeve; and engaging the proximal end of the microstimulator body with the stretching shaft includes manipulating a user-actuated control in mechanical communication with the stretching shaft.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein applying a predetermined longitudinal testing force to the electrical microstimulator via the anchor tester includes exposing the electrical microstimulator to the predetermined longitudinal testing force produced by a testing spring within the handle body in mechanical communication with the electrical microstimulator.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein sensing motion of the electrical microstimulator includes at least partially detecting motion of at least a portion of the delivery rod via a proximity sensor associated with the testing spring.
14. The method of claim 12, including
resetting the spring-biased anchor tester via a user actuated tester reset; and repeating the application of the predetermined longitudinal testing force on the electrical microstimulator.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein communicating anchoring security of the electrical microstimulator at the target implant site to a user of the insertion tool includes:
interfacing the anchor tester with a user-perceptible anchor indicator; and responsive to sensed motion of the electrical microstimulator under the predetermined longitudinal testing force, providing a signal to the anchor indicator.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein engaging the fixation aperture with the delivery sleeve concurrently with engaging a proximal end of the microstimulator body with the stretching shaft includes imparting rotational motion to at least one of the delivery sleeve and the stretching shaft relative to a respective fixation aperture or proximal end of the microstimulator body.
17. An apparatus for delivering an electrical microstimulator, the apparatus comprising:
a handle having proximal and distal handle ends longitudinally separated by a handle body, the distal handle end including a rod aperture;
an elongate delivery rod extending longitudinally from the handle body, the delivery rod including a delivery sleeve and a stretching shaft, with a chosen one of the delivery sleeve and the stretching shaft being configured for reciprocal movement with respect to the handle body and the other one of the delivery sleeve and the stretching shaft extending longitudinally from, and stationary relative to, the handle body, the stretching shaft being telescopically engaged with the delivery sleeve for cooperatively placing and maintaining the electrical microstimulator in a delivery configuration; and
a microstimulator docking feature for selectively maintaining the electrical microstimulator on the delivery rod, the microstimulator docking feature including at least one docking sleeve associated with the electrical microstimulator, at least one fixation member movable between substantially linear and substantially coiled states and laterally interposed between the electrical microstimulator and the docking sleeve, and a fixation base attached to a proximal end of the fixation member, the fixation base having a fixation aperture; and
an anchor tester associated with the handle body, the anchor tester selectively sensing motion of an electrical microstimulator at least partially engaged with the microstimulator docking feature, under influence of an applied
predetermined longitudinal testing force.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, including a user interface having a plurality of user-actuated controls to selectively and mechanically manipulate at least one of the delivery sleeve, the stretching shaft, and the anchor tester.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein at least one of the user-actuated controls is a slider for reciprocal movement at least partially between the proximal and distal handle ends.
20. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the anchor tester interfaces with an anchor indicator to communicate to a user sensed motion of the electrical microstimulator under the influence of the predetermined longitudinal testing force.
21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the sensed motion of the electrical microstimulator is sensed entirely mechanically.
22. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the delivery sleeve includes a sleeve maintenance feature to engage the fixation aperture to cooperatively facilitate longitudinal motion of a portion of the microstimulator docking feature with respect to the microstimulator body.
23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the sleeve maintenance feature engages with the fixation aperture to cooperatively form a bayonet connection.
24. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the stretching shaft engages a body feature at a proximal end of the microstimulator body to maintain relative position of the stretching shaft and the microstimulator body.
25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the stretching shaft engages with the body feature to cooperatively form a bayonet connection.
26. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein at least one of the delivery sleeve selectively engaging the fixation aperture and the stretching shaft engaging a proximal end of the microstimulator body occurs via rotational motion of the delivery sleeve and/or stretching shaft relative to the respective fixation aperture and/or microstimulator body.
</claims>
</document>
