<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61H15/00,A61H37/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SENSEI HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAUCH, ANDY
FADIL, MARK
GRUNEBERG, DANIEL
KOWALSKI, ADDISON
PASS, BRIAN
SCHKOLNE, SARA
SCHKOLNE, STEVEN
TRINH, DANY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71947951
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR THERMOGRAPHIC BODY MAPPING WITH THERAPY
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are systems and methods for providing a massage to an individual, comprising: sensing a parameter associated with the individual in response to the massage using a sensor; and guiding the massage based on the parameter.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for providing a massage to an individual, said method comprising:
(a) sensing a parameter associated with said individual in response to said massage using a sensor; and
(b) guiding said massage based on said parameter.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said parameter comprises a movement of a portion of a body of said individual.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein said sensor comprises an infrared light sensor.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein said infrared light sensor is operably coupled with an
infrared light source that is configured to project an infrared light towards the individual, and wherein the infrared light sensor is configured to sense said infrared light when said infrared light is reflected from the individual.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein said parameter comprises a temperature of a portion of a body of said individual or a vital sign of said individual.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein said sensor comprises a thermographic camera, a
temperature probe or pad, a heart rate sensor, a blood pressure cuff, an spC sensor, an ECG electrode, or an EEG sensor.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein said parameter comprises an electrocardiogram (ECG) or an electroencephalogram (EEG) of said individual.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises indicating to a massage provider to
modify said massage.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said parameter is sensed in response to said massage to a first portion of a body of said individual and wherein step (b) comprises indicating to a massage provider to modify said massage to said first portion of said body.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein indicating to a massage provider to modify said massage to said first portion of said body comprises indicating to said massage provider to apply more pressure to said first portion of said body, apply less pressure to said first portion of said body, apply additional massage to said first portion of said body, or cease massage to said first portion of said body.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein said parameter is sensed in response to said massage to a first portion of a body of said individual and wherein said parameter relates to said first portion of said body.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein said parameter comprises a movement of said first portion of said body of said individual or a thermal reading of said first portion of said body.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein said parameter is sensed in response to said massage to a first portion of a body of said individual and wherein said parameter comprises at least one of: a respiration rate, an oxygenation, a heart rate, a heart rhythm, a blood pressure, or a brain function.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein said parameter is sensed in response to said massage to a first portion of a body of said individual and wherein step (b) comprises indicating to a massage provider to modify said massage to a second portion of said body.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein indicating to a massage provider to modify said massage to said second portion of said body comprises indicating to said massage provider to apply more pressure to said second portion of said body, apply less pressure to said first portion of said body, apply additional massage to said first portion of said body, or cease massage to said first portion of said body.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein said parameter is sensed in response to said massage to a first portion of a body of said individual and wherein said parameter relates to a second portion of said body.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein said parameter is received as an input to a machine learning algorithm configured to output a guidance.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein step (b) comprises presenting said guidance to a massage provider.
19. A system for use in providing a massage to an individual, said system comprising:
(a) a surface upon which said individual lies or sits;
(b) a first sensor coupled to said surface and configured to sense a parameter associated with said individual when said individual lies or sits on said surface; and
(c) a second sensor positioned to sense a signal emitted by or reflected by a portion of said individual when said individual lies or sits on said surface.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein said surface comprises a massage table or a massage chair.
21. The system of claim 19, wherein said first sensor is positioned on said surface so that it contacts said individual when said individual lies or sits on said surface.
22. The system of claim 19, wherein said first sensor comprises a vital sign sensor, a heart rate sensor, a blood pressure sensor, an spC sensor, an ECG sensor, an EEG sensor, or an infrared sensor.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein said infrared sensor is a component of a thermogenic
camera.
24. The system of claim 19, wherein said second sensor is configured to detect motion or sense energy emitted or reflected from the individual.
25. The system of claim 24, comprising at least one of: an infrared emitter, an ultrasound
emitter, or a radiofrequency emitter.
26. The system of claim 19, comprising a non-transitory computer readable medium configured to receive said parameter and said signal and output a guidance to a massage provider.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein said guidance is to modify a massage to a portion of a body of an individual.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein said guidance is to apply more pressure to said portion, apply less pressure to said portion, apply additional massage to said portion, or cease massage to said first portion.
29. The system of claim 19, comprising a remote server configured to receive and analyze said parameter and said signal as well as a massage provider application configured to
communicate with said remote server.
30. The system of claim 29, comprising a massage recipient application configured to
communicate with said remote server.
31. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising a computer program including
instructions that cause a processor to:
(a) receive a parameter of an individual sensed with a parameter sensor; and
(b) determine a guidance comprising a modification of a massage delivered by a
massage provider to said individual.
32. The medium of claim 31, wherein said parameter comprises a movement or a temperature of a portion of a body of said individual.
33. The medium of claim 32, wherein said sensor comprises an infrared light sensor, a
thermographic camera, a temperature probe or pad, a heart rate sensor, a blood pressure cuff, an spCh sensor, an ECG electrode, or an EEG sensor.
34. The medium of claim 33, wherein said infrared light sensor is operably coupled with an infrared light source that is configured to project an infrared light towards the individual, and wherein the infrared light sensor is configured to sense said infrared light when said infrared light is reflected from the individual.
35. The medium of claim 31, wherein said parameter comprises an electrocardiogram (ECG) or an electroencephalogram (EEG) of said individual.
36. The medium of claim 31, wherein said parameter is sensed in response to said massage to a first portion of a body of said individual and wherein said guidance comprises indicating to a massage provider to modify said massage to said first portion of said body.
37. The medium of claim 31, wherein said parameter is sensed in response to said massage to a first portion of a body of said individual and wherein said guidance relates to said first portion of said body.
38. The medium of claim 31, wherein said parameter is sensed in response to said massage to a first portion of a body of said individual and wherein said parameter comprises at least one of: a respiration rate, an oxygenation, a heart rate, a heart rhythm, a blood pressure, or a brain function.
39. The medium of claim 31, wherein said parameter is sensed in response to said massage to a first portion of a body of said individual and wherein said guidance comprises indicating to a massage provider to modify said massage to a second portion of said body.
40. A method for guiding meditation, said method comprising:
(c) sensing a parameter associated with said individual while said individual is
meditating using a sensor; and
(d) providing guidance to said individual based on said parameter.
</claims>
</document>
