<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F24F11/46,G05B23/02,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GRID4C
</assignee>

<inventors>
COHEN, ERAN
RIMINI, NOA
SAMUNI, ERAN
SHIMONI, NATHANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69591403
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR HVAC INEFFICIENCY PREDICTION USING HOUSEHOLD ELECTRICAL SMART METER DATA
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention provides a method for monitoring a plurality of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems and predicting inefficient HVAC operation, implemented by one or more processors operatively coupled to a non-transitory computer readable storage device, on which are stored modules of instruction code that when executed cause the one or more processors to perform the following steps: Obtaining first training data for HVACs in a training set of households during a first period of spring weather; Obtaining second training data for HVACs in the training set of households during a period of summer weather; Preprocessing the training data to identify repeating patterns of HVAC coemption or generating additional derived parameters, in an aggregation process Calculating a 'Household Efficiency Score': the amount of energy required to change house temperature; Applying the first training data and the classification labels to train a supervised machine learning algorithm, to generate an HVAC classification model predictive of inefficiency during periods of summer weather conditions; Obtaining operational data pertaining to HVACs in an operational set of households during a second period of spring weather; and Applying the HVAC classification model to predict inefficiency of HVACs at individual households in the operational set, during periods of summer weather using only overall household power consumption.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for monitoring a plurality of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems and predicting inefficient HVAC operation, implemented by one or more processors operatively coupled to a non-transitory computer readable storage device, on which are stored modules of instruction code that when executed cause the one or more processors to perform the following steps: obtaining first training data for HVACs in a training set of households during a first predefined period weather; obtaining second training data for HVACs in the training set of households during a second predefined period weather; preprocessing the training data to identify repeating patterns of HVAC coemption or generating additional derived parameters, in an aggregation process calculating a"Household Efficiency Score": the amount of energy required to change house temperature; applying the first training data and the classification labels to train a supervised machine learning algorithm, to generate an HVAC classification model predictive of inefficiency during periods of second predefined period weather conditions; obtaining operational data pertaining to HVACs in an operational set of households during a recent first time period weather; and applying the HVAC classification model to predict inefficiency of HVACs at individual households in the operational set during periods of future second predefined period weather using only overall household power consumption.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the training data include: Frequent regular household power consumption readings; Indoor temperature; Outdoor temperature; household-specific parameters including at least one of HV AC's properties, the household profile parameters and residents' profile parameters, wherein the HVAC properties, include at least one of type, nominal power, age and HVAC ratings, including Energy Efficiency Rating (EER), Seasonal Energy Efficiency Rating (SEER), Coefficient of Performance (COP), and Heating Seasonal Performance Factor (HSPF).
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein the calculating further include calculating HVAC Linear Coefficient and Breakpoint Temperature Difference.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein classification module distinguishes between efficient and inefficient households, wherein inefficient is determined in case not being able to reach within predefined time of the predefined set temperature .
5. The method of claim 1 wherein a daily score for the HVAC efficiency is based on pattern recognition algorithms for identifying repeating pattern behavior of normal behavior of the HVAC.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the power consumption measurement readings are measured granularity of a single reading each predefined interval from a smart household power meter.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of correlating the HVAC compressor activation time with the household's overall power consumption readings, to create a disaggregation model for deriving an estimate of HVAC time based power consumption from the overall household power consumption, where in based on the disaggregation model, are derived parameters for the training model.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the HVAC efficiency classification are further based on additional classifiers, including at least one of : whether the HVAC is malfunctioning, whether undersized or oversized, insufficient insulation.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein the training include acquire, during periods of second predefined period weather data which indicates whether the HVAC has efficiently reached the thermostat setting temperature, this data serves as feedback for supervising the training of the HVAC efficiency classification model.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein the training process include generating additional derived parameters including the distribution of monthly HVAC efficiency scores over different temperature bins, which indicate HVAC responsiveness to temperature.
11. The method of claim 1 wherein in case of a suspected malfunction, calculates the excess in power consumption in comparison with similar households, to produce a malfunction"price tag".
12. A system for monitoring a plurality of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems and predicting inefficient HVAC operation, said system comprising a non-transitory storage device and one or more processing devices operatively coupled to the storage device on which are stored modules of instruction code executable by the one or more processors:
data Accumulation Module for obtaining first training data for HVACs in a training set of households during a first period of weather and obtaining second training data for HVACs in the training set of households during a second period of weather;
preprocessing module for analyzing the training data to identify repeating patterns of HVAC consumption or generating additional derived parameters, in an aggregation process training module for calculating a"Household Efficiency Score": the amount of energy required to change house temperature and for applying the first training data and the classification labels to train a supervised machine learning algorithm, to generate an HVAC classification model predictive of inefficiency during periods of summer weather conditions; prediction module for obtaining operational data pertaining to HVACs in an operational set of households during a recent first period of weather; and applying the HVAC classification model to predict inefficiency of HVACs at individual households in the operational set during future second periods of weather using only overall household power consumption.
14. The system of claim 13 wherein the training data include: Frequent regular household power consumption readings; Indoor temperature; Outdoor temperature; household-specific parameters including at least one of HV AC's properties, the household profile parameters and residents' profile parameters, wherein the HVAC properties, include at least one of type, nominal power, age and HVAC ratings, including Energy Efficiency Rating (EER), Seasonal Energy Efficiency Rating (SEER), Coefficient of Performance (COP), and Heating Seasonal Performance Factor (HSPF).
15. The system of claim 13 , wherein the calculating further include calculating HVAC Linear Coefficient and Breakpoint Temperature Difference.
16. The system of claim 13 further comprising classification module distinguishes between efficient and inefficient households, wherein inefficient is determined in case not being able to reach within predefined time period of the predetermined desired set temperature.
17. The system of claim 13 wherein a daily score for the HVAC efficiency is based on pattern recognition algorithms for identifying repeating pattern behavior of normal behavior of the HVAC.
18. The system of claim 13 wherein the power consumption measurement readings are measured granularity of a single reading each predefined interval from a smart household power meter.
19. The system of claim 1 further comprising the steps of correlating the HVAC compressor activation time with the household's overall power consumption readings, to create a disaggregation model for deriving an estimate of HVAC time based power consumption from the overall household power consumption, where in based on the disaggregation model, are derived parameters for the training model.
20. The system of claim 13 wherein the HVAC efficiency classification are further based on additional classifiers, including at least one of : whether the HVAC is malfunctioning, whether undersized or oversized, insufficient insulation.
21. The system of claim 13 wherein the training include acquire, during periods of second predefined period weather , data which indicates whether the HVAC has efficiently reached the thermostat setting temperature, this data serves as feedback for supervising the training of the HVAC efficiency classification model.
22. The method of claim 13 wherein the training process include generating additional derived parameters including the distribution of monthly HVAC efficiency scores over different temperature bins, which indicate HVAC responsiveness to temperature.
23. The system of claim 13 wherein in case of a suspected malfunction, calculates the excess in power consumption in comparison with similar households, to produce a malfunction"price tag".
</claims>
</document>
