<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B28B23/02,C23F13/04,G01D11/00,G01K3/00,G01N25/48,G16C20/70,G16C20/90,G16C60/00,H01Q1/42,H04W4/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIZADEH, ROUHOLLAH
DE CARUFEL, SARAH
FAHIM, ANDREW
GHODS, POURIA
SALEHI, MUSTAFA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALIZADEH, ROUHOLLAH
DE CARUFEL, SARAH
FAHIM, ANDREW
GHODS, POURIA
SALEHI, MUSTAFA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72667512
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EMBEDDED SENSOR DEVICES AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
Many construction materials are chemically active materials whose structural properties parameters, physical-mechanical properties, etc. need to be determined. By exploiting embedded wireless sensors within these materials from initial wet manufactured state to final solid capillary-porous material assessment of initial and subsequent properties can be established allowing determination of current and future performance of the construction material. Embedded sensors can also monitor lifetime properties to identify performance degradations in the construction material as well as other construction elements embedded within or around the construction material. Further, the data accumulated from initial manufacturing to extended lifetime allows for additional assessments and improvements with respect to selection of construction material mix for a particular project at a particular location and time, improving the assessment of proactive repair and/or remedial work, quality control monitoring, cost reduction etc.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A sensor device comprising:
a body comprising an electronic circuit and either a wireless transmitter or a wireless transceiver operating according to a predetermined wireless standard;
a cable connecting one or more sensors externally disposed with respect to the body to the electronic circuit;
a strap attached at a first predetermined location on the body; and
a hook disposed at a second predetermined location on the body.
2. The sensor device according to claim 1, wherein
the strap comprises a plurality of features disposed through the strap between an upper surface of the strap and a lower surface of the strap, each feature of the plurality of features designed to engage the hook and positioned in a predetermined location on the strap; and
the dimensions of the hook, the dimensions of the plurality of features and the positions of the plurality of features are established in dependence upon one or more elements the sensor device is to be attached to via the strap.
3. The sensor device according to claim 1, further comprising:
a plurality of features upon at least one of an upper surface of the strap and a lower surface of the strap to enhance grip to a user manipulating the strap.
4. The sensor device according to claim 1, further comprising:
a plurality of features upon a lower surface of the strap proximal the end of the strap where it attaches to the body, the features for engaging a surface of an element the sensor device is to be attached to when the strap is wrapped around the element.
5. The sensor device according to claim 4, wherein
the element is a reinforcing bar; and the surface of the reinforcing bar the plurality of features engage against are ribs of the reinforcing bar.
6. The sensor device according to claim 1, further comprising:
a plurality of features upon a lower surface of the body the end of the strap, the features for engaging a surface of an element the sensor device is to be attached to when the strap is wrapped around the element.
7. The sensor device according to claim 6, wherein
the element is a reinforcing bar; and
the surface of the reinforcing bar the plurality of features engage against are ribs of the reinforcing bar.
8. The sensor device according to claim 1, wherein
a bottom surface of the body comprises:
a contoured portion dimensioned to engage one or more elements to which the sensor device is to be attached when the strap is wrapped around the element; and a plurality of features disposed upon the contoured portion, the features for engaging a surface of an element the sensor device is to be attached to when the strap is wrapped around the element.
9. The sensor device according to claim 8, wherein
the element is a reinforcing bar; and
the surface of the reinforcing bar the plurality of features engage against are ribs of the reinforcing bar.
10. A sensor device comprising:
a body comprising an electronic circuit and either a wireless transmitter or a wireless transceiver operating according to a predetermined wireless standard;
one or more slots within a sidebar disposed on a first side of the body, each slot having a dimension to accept either an elastomeric strap or a retaining strap; wherein a bottom surface of the body comprises: a contoured portion dimensioned to engage one or more elements to which the sensor device is to be attached when the strap is wrapped around the element; and a plurality of features disposed upon the contoured portion, the features for engaging a surface of an element the sensor device is to be attached to when the strap is wrapped around the element.
11. The sensor device according to claim 10, wherein
the element is a reinforcing bar; and
the surface of the reinforcing bar the plurality of features engage against are ribs of the reinforcing bar.
12. A sensor device comprising:
a body comprising an electronic circuit, either a wireless transmitter or a wireless transceiver operating according to a predetermined wireless standard, and an antenna supporting operation at microwave or radio frequency frequencies according to the predetermined wireless standard;
one or more slots within a sidebar disposed on a first side of the body, each slot having a dimension to accept either an elastomeric strap or a retaining strap; wherein an upper surface of the body comprises a domed or raised region within which the antenna is disposed;
a bottom surface of the body comprises:
a contoured portion dimensioned to engage one or more elements to which the sensor device is to be attached when the strap is wrapped around the element; and a plurality of features disposed upon the contoured portion, the features for engaging a surface of an element the sensor device is to be attached to when the strap is wrapped around the element.
13. A sensor device comprising:
a body comprising an electronic circuit, either a wireless transmitter or a wireless transceiver operating according to a predetermined wireless standard, and an antenna supporting operation at microwave or radio frequency frequencies according to the predetermined wireless standard;
a first flex member attached at a first end of the body; and a second flex member attached at a second end of the body; wherein
a bottom surface of the body comprises:
a contoured portion dimensioned to engage one or more elements to which the sensor device is to be attached when the strap is wrapped around the element; and a plurality of features disposed upon the contoured portion, the features for engaging a surface of an element the sensor device is to be attached to when the strap is wrapped around the element.
14. A sensor device comprising:
a body comprising an electronic circuit, either a wireless transmitter or a wireless transceiver operating according to a predetermined wireless standard, and an antenna supporting operation at microwave or radio frequency frequencies according to the predetermined wireless standard; wherein
the antenna is disposed beneath a portion of the body which comprises a dome or protrusion within a cover of the body.
15. A method of providing a sensor device comprising:
providing a first portion of the sensor device comprising at least a body formed from one or more resilient materials;
providing a second portion of the sensor device formed from an elastomeric material comprising a first region and a second region; and
attaching the second portion of the sensor device to the first portion of the sensor device such that the second region of the second portion of the sensor device is attached to a bottom surface of the first portion of the sensor device and the first region of the second portion of the sensor device extends to one side of the body; wherein
the first region provides a strap for attaching the body to a reinforcing bar;
the bottom surface of the first portion of the sensor device is contoured to surround a predetermined portion of the reinforcing bar; and
the second region of the second portion of the sensor device comprises a plurality of first features for engaging a surface of the reinforcing bar when the sensor device is attached to the reinforcing bar.
16. The method according to claim 15, further comprising
attaching the sensor device to the reinforcing bar by wrapping the first region of the second portion of the sensor device around the reinforcing bar and attaching it to a hook comprising part of the body of the sensing device.
17. The method according to claim 15, wherein
a portion of the strap towards the first portion of the sensor device but not beneath the first portion of the sensor device comprises a plurality of second features for engaging the surface of the reinforcing bar when the sensor device is attached to the reinforcing bar.
18. A method comprising:
measuring a plurality of temperatures of concrete with a sensor over a period of time from a first point in time prior to the sensor being embedded within the concrete to a second point in time after the sensor has been embedded within the concrete;
processing plurality of temperature measurements to establish the presence of a characteristic within the plurality of temperature measurements; and
establishing a time within the period of time associated with the characteristic established as being present within the plurality of temperature measurements.
19. The method according to claim 18, wherein
the characteristic is the presence of an endothermic or exothermic temperature characteristic of concrete hydration behavior.
20. The method according to claim 18, wherein
the characteristic is established by:
obtaining a training set from a plurality of sensors comprising a plurality of data sets, each data set comprising a plurality of temperature measurements over a defined period of time and an identified time within the defined period of time assigned by a user as being associated with a specific event;
training a neural network with the training set; and
processing the plurality of temperature measurements with the neural network.
21. The method according to claim 18, wherein the time is associated with the pouring of the concrete.
22. The method according to claim 18, wherein
the characteristic is established by:
obtaining a training set from a plurality of sensors comprising a plurality of data sets, each data set comprising a plurality of temperature measurements over a defined period of time and an identified time within the defined period of time assigned by a user as being associated with a specific event;
training a neural network with the training set; and
processing the plurality of temperature measurements in real-time using the pre-trained neural network to establish the occurrence of the specific event in real time.
23. A method comprising:
establishing a threshold characteristic of a characteristic of a construction material with a predetermined material composition;
extracting data acquired from a plurality of sensors embedded within a deployment of the construction material with the predetermined material composition where the performance characteristic of the construction material exceeds the threshold characteristic;
iteratively varying aspects of the material composition of the construction material to establish projected performance characteristics and storing those varied material compositions exceeding the threshold characteristic;
establishing for each stored varied material composition a cost associated with that composition;
determining a stored varied material composition with lowest cost;
establishing the stored varied material composition with lowest cost as the new material composition for subsequent batches of the construction material with the predetermined material composition.
24. A method comprising:
establishing a threshold with respect to a characteristic of a construction material with a predetermined material composition; extracting data acquired from a plurality of sensors embedded within a deployment of the construction material with the predetermined material composition;
executing at least one of a machine learning process and an artificial intelligent process upon the extracted data to determine at least one of achieved performance and projected performance of the characteristic of the construction material;
determining whether the at least one of achieved performance and projected performance of the characteristic of the construction material exceeds the threshold with respect to the characteristic of the construction material with the predetermined material composition; upon a positive determination triggering an action.
25. The method according to claim 24, wherein
the action is communicating the positive determination to a user.
26. The method according to claim 24, wherein
the action is triggering a material optimization process to determine a new material composition of the construction material with a lower cost.
27. The method according to claim 26, wherein
the material optimization process comprises:
establishing a threshold characteristic of a characteristic of a construction material with a predetermined material composition;
extracting data acquired from a plurality of sensors embedded within a deployment of the construction material with the predetermined material composition where the performance characteristic of the construction material exceeds the threshold characteristic;
iteratively varying aspects of the material composition of the construction material to establish projected performance characteristics and storing those varied material compositions exceeding the threshold characteristic;
establishing for each stored varied material composition a cost associated with that composition;
determining a stored varied material composition with lowest cost; establishing the stored varied material composition with lowest cost as the new material composition for subsequent batches of the construction material with the predetermined material composition.
28. A sensor device comprising:
a body comprising an electronic circuit and either a wireless transmitter or a wireless transceiver operating according to a predetermined wireless standard;
a cable connecting one or more sensors externally disposed with respect to the body to the electronic circuit;
a first hook disposed at a first predetermined location on the body for attachment of a first portion of a strap; and
a second hook disposed at a second predetermined location on the body for the attachment of a second portion of the strap.
29. The sensor device according to claim 28, further comprising
a sensor recess disposed within the body; wherein
when a housing disposed at an end of the cable distal to the body is disposed within the sensor recess the electronic circuit is in a first state; and
when a housing disposed at an end of the cable distal to the body is not disposed within the sensor recess the electronic circuit is in a first state.
30. The sensor device according to claim 29, wherein
the first state is powered off and the second state is powered on.
31. The sensor device according to claim 29, wherein
the first state is a sleep state and the second state is an awake state.
32. The sensor device according to claim 29, wherein
the housing includes a magnet; and
the electronic circuit includes a magnetic proximity switch.
33. The sensor device according to claim 28, wherein
a surface of the body is profiled in dependence upon a mounting element to which the sensor device will be attached.
34. The sensor device according to claim 33, wherein
the profile of the surface of the body is a portion of a cylindrical surface; and
the mounting element is a reinforcing bar.
</claims>
</document>
