<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/04,G16H50/20,H03M7/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CONROY, BRYAN
RAHMAN, ASIF
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69165366
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LEARNING OF TEMPORAL DYNAMICS FOR FEATURE EXTRACTION AND COMPRESSION OF PHYSIOLOGICAL WAVEFORMS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for determining the parameters of a sparse coding method wherein the parameters include a set of filters, the method including: defining an objective function that produces the set of filters and a set of associated weights based upon a set of input signals, a set of white-noise processes, and a regularization parameter; determining the set of associated weights and set of filters that produce an optimal solution of the objective function by iterating the following steps until convergence: optimizing the set of associated weights while holding the set of filters fixed based upon the set of input signals; and optimizing the set of filters while holding set of associated weights fixed based upon the set of input signals, wherein the input signal is reconstructed based upon the set of associated weights, the set of filters, and the set of white noise processes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining the parameters of a sparse coding method wherein the parameters include a set of filters, the method comprising:
defining an objective function that produces the set of filters and a set of associated weights based upon a set of input signals, a set of white-noise processes, and a regularization parameter;
determining the set of associated weights and set of filters that produce an optimal solution of the objective function by iterating the following steps until convergence:
optimizing the set of associated weights while holding the set of filters fixed based upon the set of input signals; and
optimizing the set of filters while holding set of associated weights fixed based upon the set of input signals,
wherein the input signal is reconstructed based upon the set of associated weights, the set of filters, and the set of white noise processes.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the set of filters are an inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT) of the power spectral density of a stationary process.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein optimizing the set of associated weights while holding the set of filters fixed based upon the set of input signals includes solving a set of decoupled sparse regression problems using a convex optimization algorithm.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein optimizing the set of filters while holding set of associated weights fixed based upon the set of input signals includes using a cyclical block-coordinate decent algorithm.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising computing a specific set of weights for a specific input by solving a sparse regression problem based upon the specific input, the optimized set of filters, and the set of white noise processes.
6. A method for determining the parameters of a sparse coding method wherein the parameters include a set of filters sx, s2, ... , sK, the method comprising:
defining an objective function that produces the set of filters sx, s2, ... , sK and a set of associated weights a , a2, . . . , aN based upon a set of input signals XL, white-noise processes wik, and a regularization parameter l;
determining the set of associated weights alr a2, . . . , aN and set of filters s1, s2, sK that produce an optimal solution of the objective function by iterating the following steps until convergence:
optimizing set of the associated weights a , a2, . . . , aN while holding the set of filters s1, s2, sK fixed based upon the set of input signals XL:
optimizing for the set of filters sx, s2, ... , sK while holding associated set of weights a , a2, . . . , aN fixed based upon the set of input signals XL,
wherein the input signal is reconstructed as:
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the set of filters s±, s2, sK are sk = IFFT(sk), where IFFT is the inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT) and sk is spectral density of a stationary process.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein optimizing the set of associated weights a , a2, . . . , aN while holding the set of filters sl s2 , ... , sK fixed based upon the set of input signals XL includes solving a set of decoupled sparse regression problems using a convex optimization algorithm.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein optimizing the set of filters sl s2, sK while holding set of associated weights a , a2, . . . , aN fixed based upon the set of input signals includes using a cyclical block-coordinate decent algorithm.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein optimizing the set of filters sl s2 , , sK includes optimizing the function:
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising iteratively minimizing for each of the K filters sl s2, sK until convergence the function:
where
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising solving the function for Sj by marginalizing out white-noise processes wLJ by equating it to the Fourier transform of the phase response of Xij and then updating the filter Sj by solving a quadratic optimization problem.
13. The method of claim 6, wherein the objective function is
14. The method of claim 6, further comprising computing a specific set of weights a for a specific input X by solving a sparse regression problem defined as:
15. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium encoded with instructions for determining the parameters of a sparse coding method wherein the parameters include a set of filters, comprising:
instructions for defining an objective function that produces the set of filters and a set of associated weights based upon a set of input signals, a set of white-noise processes, and a regularization parameter;
instructions for determining the set of associated weights and set of filters that produce an optimal solution of the objective function by iterating the following steps until convergence: instructions for optimizing the set of associated weights while holding the set of filters fixed based upon the set of input signals; and
instructions for optimizing the set of filters while holding set of associated weights fixed based upon the set of input signals,
wherein the input signal is reconstructed based upon the set of associated weights, the set of filters, and the set of white noise processes.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the set of filters are an inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT) of the power spectral density of a stationary process.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein instructions for optimizing the set of associated weights while holding the set of filters fixed based upon the set of input signals includes instructions for solving a set of decoupled sparse regression problems using a convex optimization algorithm.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein instructions for optimizing the set of filters while holding set of associated weights fixed based upon the set of input signals includes using a cyclical block-coordinate decent algorithm.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, further comprising instructions for computing a specific set of weights for a specific input by solving a sparse regression problem based upon the specific input, the optimized set of filters, and the set of white noise processes.
20. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium encoded with instructions for determining the parameters of a sparse coding method wherein the parameters include a set of filters sx, s2, ... , %, comprising:
instructions for defining an objective function that produces the set of filters s1, s2, sK and a set of associated weights a , based upon a set of input signals XL, whitenoise processes wik, and a regularization parameter l;
instructions for determining the set of associated weights and set of filters sx, s2 , ... , sK that produce an optimal solution of the objective function by iterating the following steps until convergence: instructions for optimizing set of the associated weights ai a2, . . . , aN while holding the set of filters sx, s2, sK fixed based upon the set of input signals XL:
instructions for optimizing for the set of filters s , s2, sK while holding associated set of weights a , a2, . . . , aN fixed based upon the set of input signals XL,
wherein the input signal is reconstructed as:
21. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the set of filters s , s2, sK are sk = IFFT (sfe), where IFFT is the inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT) and sk is spectral density of a stationary process.
22. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein instructions for optimizing the set of associated weights alr a2, . . . , aN while holding the set of filters s1, s2, sK fixed based upon the set of input signals XL includes instructions for solving a set of decoupled sparse regression problems using a convex optimization algorithm.
23. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein instructions for optimizing the set of filters sx, s2, sK while holding set of associated weights alr a2, . . . , aN fixed based upon the set of input signals includes using a cyclical block-coordinate decent algorithm.
24. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein instructions for optimizing the set of filters sx, s2, sK includes instructions for optimizing the function:
25. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 24, further comprising instructions for iteratively minimizing for each of the K filters sx, s2, sK until convergence the function:
where
26. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 25, further comprising instructions for solving the function for Sj by marginalizing out white-noise processes wLj by equating it to the Fourier transform of the phase response of Xij and then updating the filter Sj by solving a quadratic optimization problem.
27. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the objective function is
28. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 20, further comprising instructions for computing a specific set of weights a for a specific input X by solving a sparse regression problem defined as:
</claims>
</document>
