<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60K35/00,B60W50/08,B60W50/14,B60W60/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GM CRUISE HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
THAKUR, DIVYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69191283
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CLIENT CONTROL FOR AN AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE RIDESHARING SERVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods systems provide for client control over an Autonomous Vehicle (AV). The AV can determine sets of mechanical operations that it can take at a future time. The AV can determine a ranking for each of the sets of mechanical operations, including a first ranked set and at least one second ranked set. Client or user selection can be given a certain score, weight, or other value. The AV can apply the value to the second ranked set to determine an adjusted ranking. If the adjusted ranking outranks a ranking of the first ranked set, then the AV can expose the first ranked set and the second ranked set to a client interface. If the AV receives a selection of the second ranked set, the AV can perform that set of mechanical operations. Otherwise, the AV can perform the first ranked set of mechanical operations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computerimplemented method comprising:
determining, by an Autonomous Vehicle (AV), multiple sets of one or more mechanical operations the AV can perform at a future time;
determining, by the AV, a first ranked set and at least one second ranked set from among the multiple sets;
determining, by the AV, that an adjusted ranking of a client selection of the at least one second ranked set outranks a ranking of the first ranked set;
exposing, by the AV, the first ranked set and the at least one second ranked set to a client interface; and
performing, by the AV, the at least one second ranked set at the future time in response to receiving a selection of the at least one second ranked set from the client interface within a specified time.
2. The computerimplemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
determining second multiple sets of mechanical operations the AV can perform at a second future time;
determining a first ranked set and at least one second ranked set from among the second multiple sets;
determining that an adjusted ranking of a client selection of the at least one second ranked set of the second multiple sets outranks a ranking of the first ranked set of the second multiple sets; exposing the first ranked set of the second multiple sets and the at least one second ranked set of the second multiple sets; and
performing, at the second future time, the first ranked set of the second multiple sets in response to a second specified time elapsing without the client interface receiving a selection of the at least one second ranked set of the second multiple sets.
3. The computerimplemented method of claim 1, wherein the client interface is presented on a touchscreen of the AV.
4. The computerimplemented method of claim 1, wherein the client interface is presented on a touchscreen of a user's mobile computing device.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising:
configuring at least one of the AV or the user's mobile computing device to receive the selection of the at least one second ranked set via a local connection between the AV and the user's mobile computing device.
6. The computerimplemented method of claim 1, wherein the client interface is a voice user interface executing on one of a user's mobile computing device or a computing device of the AV.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
detecting a driving blockage; determining the multiple sets of one or more mechanical operations the AV can perform at the future time in response to the driving blockage;
determining an environmental state around the AV from a sensor of the AV ; and eliminating at least one set of the multiple sets based on the environmental state around the AV.
8. The computerimplemented method of claim 1, wherein the multiple sets correspond to multiple routes to a pick-up or drop-off location.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising:
determining one or more undriveable areas to the pick-up or drop-off location; and eliminating at least one route from the multiple routes based on the one or more undriveable areas.
10. The computerimplemented method of claim 1, wherein the multiple sets correspond to multiple pick-up or drop-off locations.
11. The computerimplemented method of claim 10, further comprising:
determining traffic laws associated with a geographic area of the multiple pick-up or drop-off locations; and
eliminating at least one pick-up or drop-off location from the multiple pick-up or drop-off locations based on the traffic laws.
12. The computerimplemented method of claim 1, wherein the AV excludes at least one of a steering wheel, a foot brake pedal, a foot accelerator pedal, or a turn signal lever.
13. An Autonomous Vehicle (AV), comprising:
one or more processors;
one or more mechanical systems; and
memory including instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the AV to:
determine multiple sets of one or more operations, of the one or more mechanical systems that the AV can control, to perform at a future time;
determine a first ranked set and at least one second ranked set from among the multiple sets;
determine that an adjusted ranking of a client selection of the at least one second ranked set outranks a ranking of the first ranked set;
expose the first ranked set and the at least one second ranked set to a client interface; and
perform the at least one second ranked set at the future time in response to receiving a selection of the at least one second ranked set from the client interface within a specified time.
14. The AV of claim 13, wherein the multiple sets correspond to multiple lanes of a road on which the AV is currently traveling.
15. The AV of claim 14, wherein the multiple sets correspond to multiple dwell times at a pick-up or drop-off location.
16. The AV of claim 13, wherein the instructions, when executed, further cause the
AV to:
determine second multiple sets of one or more operations, of the one or more mechanical systems that the AV can control, to perform at a second future time;
determine a first ranked set from among the second multiple sets;
determine that no adjusted ranking of a client selection of each set of the second multiple sets outranks a ranking of the first ranked set of the second multiple sets; and
disable selection of each of the second multiple sets from the client interface for the second future time.
17. A nontransitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, upon being executed by one or more processors of an Autonomous Vehicle (AV), cause the AV to:
determine multiple sets of one or more mechanical operations the AV can perform at a future time;
determine a first ranked set and at least one second ranked set of the multiple sets;
determine that an adjusted ranking of a client selection of the at least one second ranked sets outranks a first ranking of the first ranked set;
expose the first ranked set and the at least one second ranked set to a client interface; and perform the at least one second ranked set at the future time in response to receiving a selection of the at least one second ranked set from the client interface within a specified time.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the multiple sets correspond to multiple routes to a pick-up or drop-off location.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the multiple sets correspond to multiple pick-up or drop-off locations.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the instructions, when executed, further cause the AV to:
configure at least one of the AV or a user's mobile computing device to receive the selection of the at least one second ranked set via a local connection between the AV and the user's mobile computing device.
</claims>
</document>
