<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B01D53/04,B01D53/26,B01D53/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZERO MASS WATER
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRIESEN, CODY
FRIESEN, GRANT
MCGUINNESS, KIMBERLY
ROBINSON, MICHAEL
SALLOUM, KAMIL
MEJIAORTEGA, Luis
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70554297
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WATER VAPOR ADSORPTION AIR DRYING SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING LIQUID WATER FROM AIR
</title>

<abstract>
Systems for generation of liquid water are provided. In embodiments, the systems comprise a thermal desiccant unit comprising a porous hygroscopic material located within a housing including a fluid inlet and a fluid outlet, a working fluid that accumulates heat and water vapor upon flowing from fluid inlet of the housing, through the porous hygroscopic material, and to the fluid outlet of the housing, a condenser comprising a fluid inlet and a fluid outlet for condensing water vapor from the working fluid; an enthalpy exchange unit operatively coupled between the thermal desiccant unit and the condenser, wherein the enthalpy exchange unit transfers enthalpy between the working fluid output from the thermal desiccant unit and the working fluid input to the thermal desiccant unit, and, wherein the enthalpy exchange unit transfers enthalpy between the working fluid output from the condenser and the working fluid input to the condenser.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A system for generating liquid water comprising:
a thermal desiccant unit comprising:
a housing including a working fluid inlet and a working fluid outlet; and a first porous hygroscopic material located within the housing, the first porous hygroscopic material being configured to absorb thermal energy;
a working fluid that accumulates heat and water vapor upon flowing from working fluid inlet of the housing, through the first porous hygroscopic material, and to the working fluid outlet of the housing;
a condenser for condensing water vapor from the working fluid, the condenser comprising a condenser inlet and a condenser outlet; and
at least one enthalpy exchange unit operatively coupled between the thermal desiccant unit and the condenser,
wherein the at least one enthalpy exchange unit transfers enthalpy between the working fluid output from the thermal desiccant unit and the working fluid input to the thermal desiccant unit; and
wherein the at least one enthalpy exchange unit transfers enthalpy between the working fluid output from the condenser and the working fluid input to the condenser.
2. The system of Claim 1, wherein water generation by the system is increased in response to accumulation by the working fluid of at least one of heat or water vapor from the first porous hygroscopic material.
3. The system of Claim 1, wherein the thermal desiccant unit further comprises a photovoltaic panel.
4. The system of Claim 3, wherein the working fluid accumulates heat from the photovoltaic panel upon flowing from the working fluid inlet to the working fluid outlet.
5. The system of Claim 4, wherein water generation by the system is increased in response to accumulation by the working fluid of heat from the photovoltaic panel.
6. The system of Claim 1, wherein the transfer of enthalpy comprises transferring heat from the working fluid output from the thermal desiccant unit to the working fluid input to the thermal desiccant unit.
7. The system of Claim 1, wherein the transfer of enthalpy comprises transferring moisture from the working fluid output from the condenser to the working fluid input to the condenser.
8. The system of Claim 1, wherein the at least one enthalpy exchange unit transfers at least one of sensible heat or latent heat.
9. The system of Claim 1, wherein the at least one enthalpy exchange unit transfers enthalpy via at least one of a passive enthalpy exchange mechanism or an active enthalpy exchange mechanism.
10. The system of Claim 1, wherein the first porous hygroscopic material comprises at least one of a light absorbing hygroscopic material or a light activated hygroscopic material.
11. The system of Claim 1, further comprising:
an auxiliary desiccant unit comprising a second porous hygroscopic material movable between an adsorption zone and a desorption zone of the auxiliary desiccant unit; and a process gas that flows through the second porous hygroscopic material in the adsorption zone of the auxiliary desiccant unit,
wherein, in the adsorption zone, the second porous hygroscopic material captures water vapor from the process gas, and
wherein, in the desorption zone, the second porous hygroscopic material releases water vapor to the working fluid subsequent to the thermal desiccant unit and in advance of the condenser.
12. The system of Claim 11, wherein, in the desorption zone, the second porous hygroscopic material releases water to the working fluid output from the thermal desiccant unit in advance of the at least one enthalpy exchange unit and the condenser.
13. The system of Claim 11, wherein the first porous hygroscopic material and the second porous hygroscopic material are different hygroscopic materials.
14. The system of Claim 13, wherein the first porous hygroscopic material has a higher water uptake capacity than the second porous hygroscopic material.
15. The system of Claim 11, further comprising a fan configured to adjust a flow rate of the process gas through the second porous hygroscopic material in the adsorption zone of the auxiliary desiccant unit.
16. The system of Claim 11, further comprising a microcontroller configured to maximize a liquid water production rate of the condenser by varying at least one of an exchange rate of the at least one enthalpy exchange unit, a flow rate of the working fluid, or a rate of movement of the second porous hygroscopic material between the adsorption zone and the desorption zone of the auxiliary desiccant unit.
17. The system of Claim 16, wherein the rate of movement of the second porous hygroscopic material between the adsorption zone and the desorption zone of the auxiliary desiccant unit is based on at least one of an ambient solar flux, an ambient temperature, an ambient relative humidity, a temperature of the working fluid, a relative humidity of the working fluid, the flow rate of the working fluid, an exchange rate of the at least one enthalpy exchange unit, an amount of water present in the first porous hygroscopic material, or an elapsed time.
18. The system of Claim 1, further comprising a fan configured to adjust s flow rate of the working fluid.
19. The system of Claim 1, further comprising a fan configured to adjust a flow rate of a process gas flow across the condenser so as to remove heat from the condenser.
20. The system of Claim 1, further comprising a microcontroller configured to maximize a liquid water production rate of the condenser by varying at least one of an exchange rate of the at least one enthalpy exchange unit, or a flow rate of the working fluid.
21. The system of Claim 20, wherein the exchange rate of the at least one enthalpy exchange unit is varied based on at least one of an ambient solar flux, an ambient temperature, an ambient relative humidity, a temperature of the working fluid, a relative humidity of the working fluid, an amount of water present in the first porous hygroscopic material, an elapsed time, a user selection, or a predetermined program.
22. The system of Claim 20, wherein the flow rate of the working fluid is varied based on at least one of an ambient solar flux, an ambient temperature, an ambient relative humidity, a temperature of the working fluid, a relative humidity of the working fluid, an amount of water present in the first porous hygroscopic material, or an elapsed time.
23. The system of Claim 1, wherein the thermal desiccant unit further comprises a transparent cover layer allowing solar radiation to pass therethrough, the transparent cover layer being disposed above a layer comprising the first porous hygroscopic material.
24. The system of Claim 23, further comprising:
one or more interstitial layers between the transparent cover layer and the layer comprising the first porous hygroscopic material,
wherein the working fluid flows along the one or more interstitial layers and then through the layer comprising the first porous hygroscopic material such that the working fluid collects heat from the one or more interstitial layers below the transparent cover layer and collects water vapor and heat from the first porous hygroscopic material.
25. The system of Claim 1, further comprising:
a batch desiccant unit comprising a batch hygroscopic material positioned between a batch desiccant inlet and a batch desiccant outlet,
wherein the batch hygroscopic material captures water vapor from the working fluid in advance of input to the thermal desiccant unit.
26. The system of Claim 1, wherein the at least one enthalpy exchange unit
comprises:
a first enthalpy exchange unit configured to transfer enthalpy between the working fluid directly output from the thermal desiccant unit and the working fluid directly input to the thermal desiccant unit; and
a second enthalpy exchange unit configured to transfer enthalpy between the working fluid directly output from the condenser and the working fluid input directly to the condenser,
wherein the first enthalpy exchange unit and the second enthalpy exchange unit have different enthalpy exchange characteristics resulting in a difference in an amount of sensible or latent heat transferred.
27. The system of Claim 26, wherein the first enthalpy exchange unit and the second enthalpy exchange unit comprise different hygroscopic materials.
28. The system of Claim 26, wherein the first enthalpy exchange unit transfers a greater amount of sensible heat than the second enthalpy exchange unit, or the second enthalpy exchange unit transfers a greater amount of latent heat than the first enthalpy exchange unit.
29. A method for extracting liquid water from a process gas comprising:
flowing a process gas through a thermal desiccant unit comprising a first porous hygroscopic material during a load time, wherein the first porous hygroscopic material captures water vapor from the process gas during the load time;
transitioning from the load time to a release time;
flowing a working fluid through the thermal desiccant unit comprising the first porous hygroscopic material during a release time, wherein the working fluid accumulates heat and water vapor while flowing through the thermal desiccant unit during the release time;
transferring, by an enthalpy exchange unit, heat from the working fluid output from the thermal desiccant unit to the working fluid input to the thermal desiccant unit during the release time;
condensing, by a condenser, water vapor from the working fluid into liquid water during the release time;
transferring, by the enthalpy exchange unit, water vapor from the working fluid output from the condenser to the working fluid input to the condenser during the release time.
30. The method according to Claim 29, wherein the method further comprises:
monitoring one or more ambient conditions; and
transitioning between the load time and the release time based on the one or more ambient conditions.
31. The method according to Claim 29, wherein the method further comprises maximizing a liquid water production rate of the condenser by varying at least one of an exchange rate of the enthalpy exchange unit or a flow rate of the working fluid.
32. The method according to Claim 29, further comprising maximizing a liquid water production rate based on at least one of an ambient solar flux, an ambient temperature, an ambient relative humidity, a temperature of the working fluid, a relative humidity of the working fluid, an amount of water present in the first porous hygroscopic material, an elapsed time, a user selection, or a
predetermined program.
33. The method according to Claim 29, wherein the method further comprises:
moving a second porous hygroscopic material between an adsorption zone and a desorption zone of an auxiliary desiccant unit; and
flowing a process gas through the second porous hygroscopic material in the adsorption zone of the auxiliary desiccant unit during the release time, wherein, in the adsorption zone, the second porous hygroscopic material captures water vapor from the process gas, and
wherein, in the desorption zone, the second porous hygroscopic material releases water vapor to the working fluid.
34. The method according to Claim 33, wherein the method further comprises
varying at least one of an exchange rate of the enthalpy exchange unit, a flow rate of the working fluid or the rate of movement of the second porous hygroscopic material between the adsorption zone and the desorption zone of the auxiliary desiccant unit.
35. The method according to Claim 29, wherein the method further comprises
maximizing a liquid water production rate of the condenser by increasing the net flux of water vapor in the working fluid to the condenser.
36. The method according to Claim 29, wherein flowing a process gas through the thermal desiccant unit during the load time comprises flowing ambient air through the thermal desiccant unit.
37. A method for operating a system for generating liquid water from a process gas, wherein the system comprises:
a housing including one or more fluid inlets and one or more fluid outlets;
one or more porous hygroscopic absorbers within the housing;
one or more separators within the housing configured to partition the one or more porous hygroscopic absorbers, wherein the one or more separators defines one or more fluid flow pathways through the one or more porous hygroscopic absorbers; and
a condenser,
wherein the method comprises:
flowing the process gas through the one or more porous hygroscopic absorbers at a high process gas flux during a load time to capture water vapor from the process gas during the load time;
transitioning from the load time to a release time;
flowing a working fluid through the one or more porous hygroscopic absorbers to transport heat and water vapor from an upper surface of the housing towards a lower surface of the housing during the release time; and,
condensing, by a condenser, water vapor from the working fluid into liquid water during the release time.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the one or more separators directs the process fluid along a first fluid pathway and directs the working fluid along a second fluid pathway being at least partially different from the first fluid pathway.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein a first fluid inlet of the one or more fluid inlets is configured to input process fluid at a substantially perpendicular angle relative to a second fluid inlet of the one or more fluid inlets configured to input working fluid.
</claims>
</document>
