<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01D21/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
SONY EUROPE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ARGAWAL, Rajni
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66443122
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA PROCESSING APPARATUS, SENSOR AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
A data processing method comprising: receiving, from each of a plurality of sensors each located at a respective location, a signal indicative of a respective value of a parameter measured by that sensor at a respective one of a plurality of successive times; and determining, based on the value of the parameter measured by one or more first sensors of the plurality of sensors at a respective one or more of the plurality of successive times, a value of the parameter at the location of a second sensor of the plurality of sensors at one of the one or more of the plurality of successive times.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data processing method comprising:
receiving, from each of a plurality of sensors each located at a respective location, a signal indicative of a respective value of a parameter measured by that sensor at a respective one of a plurality of successive times; and
determining, based on the value of the parameter measured by one or more first sensors of the plurality of sensors at a respective one or more of the plurality of successive times, a value of the parameter at the location of a second sensor of the plurality of sensors at one of the one or more of the plurality of successive times.
2. A data processing method according to claim 1 , wherein the signal received from each sensor is received over a low-power wide-area network, LPWAN.
3. A data processing method according to claim 1 , wherein the value of the parameter at the location of the second sensor is determined based on a weighted combination of the values of the parameter measured by the one or more first sensors, the weighting of the value of the parameter measured by each of the one or more first sensors being determined based on one or more of a time elapsed since the value of the parameter was measured by that first sensor and a spatial separation between the first sensor and the second sensor.
4. A data processing method according to claim 3, wherein:
a variation in space and/or time of the parameter varies with different time periods; and weightings of the values of the parameter measured by the one or more first sensors vary accordingly with the different time periods.
5. A data processing method according to claim 1 , wherein:
a variation in space and/or time of the parameter varies with different time periods; and a number of first sensors used to determine the value of the parameter at the location of the second sensor varies accordingly with the different time periods.
6. A data processing method according to claim 1 , wherein:
a variation in space and/or time of the parameter varies with different time periods; and an interval between each of the plurality of successive times varies accordingly with the different time periods.
7. A data processing method according to claim 1 , comprising: for each sensor, receiving further signals from that sensor indicative of respective further values of the parameter periodically measured by that sensor, the further measurements of the sensors being interleaved with each other in time at respective ones of a plurality of further successive times; wherein, for each sensor:
if the latest measured value of the parameter is different to the previous measured value of the parameter, the further signal indicative of the latest measured value of the parameter comprises the latest measured value of the parameter, and
if the latest measured value of the parameter is within a predetermined threshold of the previous measured value of the parameter, the further signal indicative of the latest measured value of the parameter comprises an indicator indicating that the latest measured value of the parameter is the same as the previous measured value of the parameter.
8. A data processing method according to claim 1 , wherein:
the plurality of sensors comprises a first set of sensors each configured to measure a value of a first parameter and a second set of sensors each configured to measure a value of a second parameter; and
an interval between each of the plurality of successive times at which a value of the first parameter is measured by a respective one of the first set of sensors is different to an interval between each of the plurality of successive times at which a value of the second parameter is measured by a respective one of the second set of sensors, and/or
the spatial separation between the sensors of the first set of sensors is different to the spatial separation between the sensors of the second set of sensors.
9. A data processing method according to claim 1 , wherein the plurality of sensors are distributed along a road and the parameter measured each sensor is one of temperature, humidity, an amount of an air pollutant, a vehicle count, a depth of settled precipitation and the presence of an oil-based substance.
10. A data processing method according to claim 1 , wherein the plurality of sensors are distributed along a fluid transport conduit and the parameter measured by each sensor is one of temperature, vibration, pressure, fluid flow rate, conduit degradation and substance build up.
1 1. A data processing method according to claim 1 , wherein the plurality of sensors are distributed over an agricultural region and the parameter measured by each sensor is one of temperature, humidity, an amount of acidity or alkalinity, an amount of a nutrient and an amount of a toxin.
12. A data processing method according to claim 1 , wherein the plurality of sensors are distributed over a volume of water containing aquatic animals and the parameter measured by each sensor is one of temperature, oxygen concentration, algae concentration, toxin concentration and sediment build up.
13. A data processing method according to claim 1 , wherein the plurality of sensors are distributed over a pedestrianised region and the parameter measured by each sensor is one of temperature, humidity, an amount of an air pollutant and a pedestrian count.
14. A sensing method comprising:
periodically measuring a value of a parameter of an environment;
transmitting, to a data processing apparatus, signals each indicative of a respective one of the measured parameter values, the signals being periodically transmitted over a low-power wide-area network, LPWAN, during a subset of periodic duty cycle-constrained active time periods of the LPWAN.
15. A non-transitory storage medium comprising computer readable instructions for controlling a computer to perform a method according to any preceding claim.
16. A data processing apparatus comprising:
receiver circuitry configured to receive, from each of a plurality of sensors each located at a respective location, a signal indicative of a respective value of a parameter measured by that sensor at a respective one of a plurality of successive times; and
processor circuitry configured to determine, based on the value of the parameter measured by one or more first sensors of the plurality of sensors at a respective one or more of the plurality of successive times, a value of the parameter at the location of a second sensor of the plurality of sensors at one of the one or more of the plurality of successive times.
17. A data processing apparatus according to claim 16, comprising output circuitry configured to output, to an audio and/or visual device, information determined according to the determined value of the parameter at the location of the second sensor.
18. A system comprising:
a data processing apparatus according to claim 16; and
a plurality of sensors each located at a respective location and configured to measure a respective value of a parameter at a respective one of a plurality of successive times and transmit a signal indicative of the measured value of the parameter to the data processing apparatus.
19. A sensor apparatus comprising:
sensor circuitry configured to periodically measure a value of a parameter of the environment of the sensor apparatus;
communication circuitry configured to transmit, to a data processing apparatus, signals each indicative of a respective one of the measured parameter values, the signals being periodically transmitted over a low-power wide-area network, LPWAN, during a subset of periodic duty cycle-constrained active time periods of the LPWAN.
</claims>
</document>
