<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63B24/00,G16H20/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FITBEAT AUSTRALIA PTY LTD
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUNITZ, Michael Vernon
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70374760
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DELIVERING A PERSONALISED DOSE OF EXERCISE
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure provides a system for delivery of a personalised dose of exercise to subjects, comprising a computing device configured to obtain information pertaining to the subjects. The system further includes a fitness program determining device configured to: store information about the subjects; determine a personalised dose of exercise for a subject based on the information of the subject; and schedule the personalised dose of exercise to one or more exercise zones and points in time in a physical gym. The system furthermore includes an instruction device for providing personalised instructions to the subject based on the personalised dose of exercise at the points in time. The personalised instructions includes instructions for performing activities in the exercise zones, an order in which the activities to be performed in the exercise zones, and a workout sequence and a timing in which the exercise zones are to be completed.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1 . A system for delivering a personalised dose of exercise to one or more subjects, comprising: a computing device configured to obtain information pertaining to the one or more subjects; a fitness program determining device configured to: determine a personalised dose of exercise for a subject of the one or more subjects based on the information of the subject received from the computing device and pre-stored information related to exercises from a database of the system; store information pertaining to the one or more subjects; and schedule the personalised dose of exercise to one or more exercise zones and points in time in a physical gym comprising the one or more exercise zones; and an instruction device configured to provide one or more personalised instructions to the subject based on the determined personalised dose of exercise at the points in time scheduled by the fitness program determining device, wherein the one or more personalised instructions comprises at least one of instructions for performing one or more activities in at least one exercise zone of one or more exercise zones, an order in which the one or more activities to be performed in the one or more exercise zones, and a workout sequence and a timing in which the one or more exercise zones are to be completed to deliver the personalised dose of exercise for the subject.
2. The system of claim 1 , wherein for each of the one or more subjects, the information comprises at least one of an age, a gender, a desired general fitness goal, a desired workout style for said dose of exercise, a desired target area for said dose of exercise, a desired time, date, duration of dose of exercise and/or location for said dose of exercise, a details of one or more previous doses of exercise delivered to said subject, data relating to a parameter selected from the group consisting of weight, heart rate, blood pressure, percentage body fat, BMI, blood glucose level, ECG, respiratory rate, muscle mass, steps, energy expenditure and energy intensity.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the fitness program determining device configured to determine a personalised smart meal plan for the subject based on the information of the subject and pre-stored information related to smart meal plans from the database.
4. The system of claim 3, the personalised dose of exercise for the subject comprises a plurality of exercises to be performed by the subject in each of the one or more exercise zones.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the subject is part of a group comprising the one or more subjects.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the fitness program determining device is further configured to determine a group personalised dose of exercise for the group and individual personalised dose of exercise for each of the one or more subjects of the group based on the information of the one or more subjects.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the computing device is configured to: obtain additional information for each subject of the one or more subjects during the personalised dose of exercise as performed by each subject; and send the additional information to the fitness program determining device, wherein the fitness program determining device stored the additional information.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the fitness program determining device is also configured to modify the personalised dose of exercise being delivered to each subject in response to the additional information obtained during the personalised dose of exercise.
9. The system of claim 1 , wherein the computing device comprises at least one of a mobile device, a desktop computer in communication, a laptop, a smart television, a smart phone, a tablet computer, a fitness tracker, historical information of the subject, a body composition analyser, a personal monitoring device, a power output monitoring device connected to a piece of equipment in one or exercise zones, wherein the power output monitoring device, wherein the computing device is in communication with the fitness program determining device.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the fitness program determining device comprises a server, further wherein the fitness program determining device is in communication with at least one of the instruction device and the computing device.
1 1. The system of claim 10, wherein: the instruction device comprises an audio/video display device located in proximity of the one or more exercise zones, further wherein each of the one or more exercise zones comprises a separate instruction device comprising a separate audio/video display device for each of the one or more exercise zones; and the instruction device is configured to function in an offline mode when not connected to the fitness program determining device, wherein the instruction device shows its own selection of exercises from pre-stored plurality of exercises that is notsubject specific.
12. The system of claim 1 , wherein an exercise zone of the one or more exercise zones accommodates two or more subjects of the one or more subjects performing an activity simultaneously, further wherein the instruction device is configured to provide instructions for the two or more subjects in the same exercise zone simultaneously to perform a different activity based on a personalised dose of exercise of the two or more subjects.
13. The system of claim 12 further comprising a reporting device configured to: receive personalised statistics information about the subject from one or more personal information capturing devices; create a smart report for the subject by measuring and/or interpreting the subject's analytics in relation to the subject's starting analytics and based on the personalised statistics information, information about the workouts, user inputs, inputs from the computing device, statistics derived from body scans of the subject, changing statistics measured during the workout according to the personalised dose of exercise and compared to the statistics prior to the workout and after the workout, and long-term fitness goal of the subject; and present a smart report to the subject, wherein the smart report is displayed on the computing device.
14. A method for delivering a personalised dose of exercise to one or more subjects, comprising: obtaining, by a computing device, information pertaining to the one or more subjects; determining, by a fitness program determining device, a personalised dose of exercise for a subject of the one or more subjects based on information of the subject received from the computing device and the pre-stored information related to exercises from a database; storing, by the fitness program determining device, information pertaining to the one or more subjects; scheduling, by the fitness program determining device, the personalised dose of exercise to one or more exercise zones and points in time in a physical gym comprising the one or more exercise zones; and providing, by an instruction device, one or more personalised instructions to the subject based on the determined personalised dose of exercise at the points in time scheduled by the fitness program determining device, wherein the one or more personalised instructions comprises at least one of instructions for performing one or more activities in at least one exercise zone of one or more exercise zones, an order in which the one or more activities to be performed in the one or more exercise zones, and a workout sequence and a timing in which the one or more exercise zones are to be completed to deliver the personalised dose of exercise for the subject.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein: for each of the one or more subjects, the information comprises at least one of an age, a gender, a desired general fitness goal, a desired workout style for said dose of exercise, a desired target area for said dose of exercise, a desired time, date, duration of dose of exercise and/or location for said dose of exercise, historical information of the subject, a details of one or more previous doses of exercise delivered to said subject, data relating to a parameter selected from the group consisting of weight, heart rate, blood pressure, percentage body fat, BMI, blood glucose level, ECG, respiratory rate, muscle mass, steps, energy expenditure and energy intensity; and the personalised dose of exercise for the subject comprises at least one of a plurality of exercises to be performed by the subject in each of the one or more exercise zones.
16. The method of claim 15 further comprising determining, by the fitness program determining device, a personalised smart meal plan for the subject based on the information of the subject and the pre-stored information related to smart meal plans from the database.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the subject is part of a group comprising the one or more subjects.
18. The method of claim 17 further comprising determining, by the fitness program determining device, a group personalised dose of exercise for the group and individual personalised dose of exercise for each of the one or more subjects of the group based on the information of the one or more subjects.
19. The method of claim 17 further comprising: obtaining, by the computing device, additional information for each subject of the one or more subjects during the personalised dose of exercise as performed by each subject; storing, by the fitness program determining device, the additional information; and modifying, by the fitness program determining device, the personalised dose of exercise being delivered to each subject in response to the additional information obtained during the personalised dose of exercise.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein: the computing device comprises at least one of the computing device comprises at least one of a mobile device, a desktop computer in communication, a laptop, a smart television, a smart phone, a tablet computer, a fitness tracker, a body composition analyser, a personal monitoring device, a power output monitoring device connected to a piece of equipment in one or exercise zones, wherein the power output monitoring device, wherein the computing device is in communication with the fitness program determining device; the fitness program determining device comprises a server, further wherein the fitness program determining device is in communication with the instruction device and the computing device; and the instruction device comprises an audio/video display device located in proximity of the exercise zone, further wherein each of the one or more exercise zones comprises a separate instruction device comprising a separate audio/video display device for each of the one or more exercise zones.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein an exercise zone of the one or more exercise zones accommodates two or more subjects of the one or more subjects performing an activity simultaneously.
22. The method of claim 21 further comprising providing, by the instruction device, personalised instructions for the two or more subjects in the same exercise zone simultaneously to perform a different activity based on a personalised dose of exercise of the two or more subjects.
23. The method of claim 22 further comprising: receiving, by a reporting device, personalised statistics information about the subject from one or more personal information capturing devices; creating, by the reporting device, a smart report for the subject by measuring and/or interpreting the subject's analytics in relation to the subject's starting analytics and based on the personalised statistics information, information about the workouts, user inputs, inputs from the computing device, statistics derived from body scans of the subject, changing statistics measured during the workout according to the personalised dose of exercise and compared to the statistics prior to the workout and after the workout, and long-term fitness goal of the subject; and presenting, by the reporting device, a smart report to the subject, wherein the smart report is displayed on the computing device.
</claims>
</document>
