<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/145,A61M5/142,A61M5/145,A61M5/168,A61M5/172,G16H10/20,G16H10/60,G16H20/17,G16H20/60,G16H40/63,G16H50/20,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDTRONIC MINIMED
</assignee>

<inventors>
GROSMAN, BENYAMIN
LINTEREUR, LOUIS J.
PARIKH, NEHA J.
ROY, ANIRBAN
WU DI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69948017
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INSULIN INFUSION DEVICE WITH CONFIGURABLE TARGET BLOOD GLUCOSE VALUE FOR AUTOMATIC BASAL INSULIN DELIVERY OPERATION
</title>

<abstract>
An insulin infusion device and related operating methods are disclosed. An operating method maintains a configurable, patient-specific, target glucose setpoint for a user of the insulin infusion device, collects historical data associated with operation of the insulin infusion device, and calculates, from the historical data, a target glucose setpoint profile for the user of the insulin infusion device. A current target glucose setpoint value is automatically adjusted over time during a closed-loop operating mode of the insulin infusion device, in accordance with the calculated target glucose setpoint profile. In certain embodiments, the historical data is analyzed to determine a clinically preferred target glucose setpoint value for the user, which is stored for use during the closed-loop operating mode.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. An insulin infusion device comprising:
a drive system;
at least one processor device that regulates operation of the drive system to deliver insulin from a fluid reservoir;
a user interface comprising at least one human-machine interface element;
a display element; and
at least one memory element associated with the at least one processor device, the at least one memory element storing processor-executable instructions configurable to be executed by the at least one processor device to perform a method of controlling operation of the insulin infusion device, the method comprising:
maintaining a configurable, patient-specific, target glucose setpoint for a user of the insulin infusion device;
obtaining a target glucose setpoint profile for the user of the insulin infusion device, the target glucose setpoint profile generated from historical data associated with operation of the insulin infusion device; and
automatically adjusting a current target glucose setpoint value over time during a closed-loop operating mode of the insulin infusion device, in accordance with the obtained target glucose setpoint profile.
2. The insulin infusion device of claim 1, wherein the historical data comprises glucose data associated with measured glucose levels of the user, insulin delivery data associated with amounts of insulin delivered to the user, and meal data associated with identified meals consumed by the user.
3. The insulin infusion device of claim 1 or 2, wherein the obtained target glucose setpoint profile corresponds to a 24-hour time period.
4. The insulin infusion device of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the obtaining step comprises: calculating the target glucose setpoint profile from the historical data or
receiving the target glucose setpoint profile from a remote system or device.
5. The insulin infusion device of any preceding claim, wherein the at least one processor device is further configured to perform the steps of:
displaying, on the display element, information related to the obtained target glucose setpoint profile; and
receiving, from the user interface, a confirmation input that indicates user acceptance of the obtained target glucose setpoint profile;
wherein the step of automatically adjusting the current target glucose setpoint value is performed after receiving the confirmation input.
6. The insulin infusion device of any preceding claim, wherein the at least one processor device is further configured to perform the step of:
automatically controlling delivery of basal insulin from the fluid reservoir, based on the current target glucose setpoint value.
7. A method of operating an insulin infusion device comprising a drive system, at least one processor device that regulates operation of the drive system to deliver insulin from a fluid reservoir, a user interface comprising at least one human-machine interface element, and a display element, the method comprising:
maintaining a configurable, patient-specific, target glucose setpoint for a user of the insulin infusion device;
collecting historical data associated with operation of the insulin infusion device;
calculating, from the historical data, a target glucose setpoint profile for the user of the insulin infusion device; and
automatically adjusting a current target glucose setpoint value over time during a closedloop operating mode of the insulin infusion device, in accordance with the calculated target glucose setpoint profile.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the historical data comprises glucose data associated with measured glucose levels of the user, insulin delivery data associated with amounts of insulin delivered to the user, and meal data associated with identified meals consumed by the user, and/or wherein the calculated target glucose setpoint profile corresponds to a 24-hour time period.
9. The method of claim 7 or 8, further comprising the steps of:
displaying, on the display element, information related to the calculated target glucose setpoint profile; and
receiving, from the user interface, a confirmation input that indicates user acceptance of the calculated target glucose setpoint profile;
wherein the step of automatically adjusting the current target glucose setpoint value is performed after receiving the confirmation input, and / or wherein the method further comprises: automatically controlling delivery of basal insulin from the fluid reservoir, based on the current target glucose setpoint value.
10. An insulin infusion device comprising:
a drive system;
at least one processor device that regulates operation of the drive system to deliver insulin from a fluid reservoir;
a user interface comprising at least one human-machine interface element;
a display element; and
at least one memory element associated with the at least one processor device, the at least one memory element storing processor-executable instructions configurable to be executed by the at least one processor device to perform a method of controlling operation of the insulin infusion device, the method comprising:
maintaining a configurable, patient-specific, target glucose setpoint for a user of the insulin infusion device;
obtaining a clinically preferred target glucose setpoint value for the user of the insulin infusion device, the clinically preferred target glucose setpoint value determined from historical data associated with operation of the insulin infusion device; and storing the obtained clinically preferred target glucose setpoint value for use during a closed-loop operating mode of the insulin infusion device.
11. The insulin infusion device of claim 10, wherein the historical data comprises glucose data associated with measured glucose levels of the user, insulin delivery data associated with amounts of insulin delivered to the user, and meal data associated with identified meals consumed by the user.
12. The insulin infusion device of claim 10 or 11, wherein the obtaining step comprises: receiving the clinically preferred target glucose setpoint value from a remote system or device.
13. The insulin infusion device of claim 10, 11 or 12, wherein the at least one processor device is further configured to perform the steps of:
displaying, on the display element, information related to the obtained clinically preferred target glucose setpoint value; and
receiving, from the user interface, a confirmation input that indicates user acceptance of the obtained clinically preferred target glucose setpoint value;
wherein the step of storing the obtained clinically preferred target glucose setpoint value is performed after receiving the confirmation input, and / or wherein the at least one processor device is further configured to perform the step of:
automatically controlling delivery of basal insulin from the fluid reservoir, based on the clinically preferred target glucose setpoint value.
14. A method of operating an insulin infusion device comprising a drive system, at least one processor device that regulates operation of the drive system to deliver insulin from a fluid reservoir, a user interface comprising at least one human-machine interface element, and a display element, the method comprising:
maintaining a configurable, patient-specific, target glucose setpoint for a user of the insulin infusion device;
collecting historical data associated with operation of the insulin infusion device; analyzing the historical data to determine a clinically preferred target glucose setpoint value for the user of the insulin infusion device; and
storing the clinically preferred target glucose setpoint value for use during a closed-loop operating mode of the insulin infusion device.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising the steps of:
displaying, on the display element, information related to the clinically preferred target glucose setpoint value; and
receiving, from the user interface, a confirmation input that indicates user acceptance of the clinically preferred target glucose setpoint value;
wherein the step of storing the clinically preferred target glucose setpoint value is performed after receiving the confirmation input, and/or further comprising the step of:
automatically controlling delivery of basal insulin from the fluid reservoir, based on the clinically preferred target glucose setpoint value.
</claims>
</document>
