<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BECTON, DICKINSON & COMPANY
FLOWJO
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAI, JANICE H.
TAYLOR, IAN
VELAZQUEZ-PALAFOX, MIGUEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68296706
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEEP LEARNING PARTICLE CLASSIFICATION PLATFORM
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for a deep-learning platform for sorting cell populations. An example method includes executing a software-platform associated with analyzing received flow cytometry data obtained via an acquisition device in communication with the computing system, and the software-platform sorting cell populations indicated in the flow cytometry data. User input is received indicating selection of a deep-learning module, the deep-learning module being obtained via a network to supplement the software-platform. The flow cytometry data is analyzed and a machine learning model is selected which was trained based on similar phenotype information as indicated in the flow cytometry data. The machine learning model is applied based on the flow cytometry data, the information being normalized based on the UMI counts associated with the flow cytometry data. A graphical representation of cell populations indicated in the flow cytometry data is presented, the graphical representation sorting the cell populations according to phenotype information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system in data communication with a source of events comprising flow cytometry data, the computing system being implemented for sorting cell populations according to phenotype, and the computing system comprising:
one or more computer processors; and
non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more computer processors, cause the computing system to perform operations comprising:
executing a software-platform associated with analyzing received events, the received events being obtained via an acquisition device in communication with the computing system, and the software-platform sorting cell populations indicated in the events;
receiving user input, via a user interface of the software-platform, indicating selection of a deep-learning module, the deep-learning module being obtained via a network to supplement the software-platform;
analyzing, by the software-platform, the events and selecting a machine learning model trained, at least in part, based on similar phenotype information as indicated in the events;
applying the machine learning model via generating a forward pass of information generated based on the events, the information being normalized based on the events; and presenting, via the user interface, a graphical representation of cell populations indicated in the events, the graphical representation sorting the cell populations according to phenotype information.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein phenotype information comprises one or more of phenotypes comprising surface markers, surface receptors, antigens, gene expression levels, and/or protein expression levels.
3. The computing system of claims 1 to 2, wherein the deep-learning module accesses an online repository of machine learning models, and wherein the machine learning models were created by users of the software-based platform. 4. The computing system of claims 1 to 3, wherein selecting the machine learning model comprises:
based on the events, identifying phenotypes usable to sort cell populations;
accessing metadata associated with one or more machine learning models, the metadata identifying phenotypes and/or cell populations used for training the machine learning models; and
selecting the machine learning model based on the accessed metadata.
5. The computing system of claims 1 to 4, wherein generating information based on normalizing the events comprises performing pooling information included in the events and performing a transformation of unique molecular identifier (UMI) counts.
6. The computing system of claims 1 to 5, wherein the graphical representation comprises a graphical depiction of gating of the events.
7. The computing system of claims 1 to 6, wherein a machine learning model comprises a fully-connected neural network or a convolutional neural network.
8. A method implemented by a computing system of one or more processors, the method comprising:
executing a software-platform associated with analyzing received events comprising single cell phenotype data, the received events being obtained via an acquisition device or based one or more datasets stored by a database, and the software-platform sorting cell populations indicated in the events;
receiving user input, via a user interface of the software-platform, indicating selection of a deep-learning module, the deep-learning module being obtained via a network to supplement the software-platform;
analyzing, by the software-platform, the events and selecting a machine learning model trained, at least in part, based on similar phenotype information as indicated in the events;
applying the machine learning model via generating a forward pass of information generated based on the events; and presenting, via the user interface, a graphical representation of cell populations indicated in the events, the graphical representation sorting the cell populations according to phenotype information.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein phenotype information comprises one or more of phenotypes comprising surface markers, surface receptors, antigens, gene expression levels, and/or protein expression levels.
10. The method of claims 8 to 9, wherein the deep-learning module accesses an online repository of machine learning models, and wherein the machine learning models were created by users of the software-based platform.
11. The method of claims 8 to 10, wherein selecting machine learning model comprises:
based on the events, identifying phenotypes usable to sort cell populations of immune cells;
accessing metadata associated with one or more machine learning models, the metadata identifying phenotypes and/or cell populations used for training the machine learning models; and
selecting the machine learning model based on the accessed metadata.
12. The method of claims 8 to 11, wherein the generated information is normalized based on the events, and wherein generating information based on normalizing the events comprises performing pooling information included in the events and performing a transformation of unique molecular identifier (UMI) counts.
13. The method of claims 8 to 12, wherein the graphical representation comprises a graphical depiction of gating of the events.
14. The method of claims 8 to 13, wherein a machine learning model comprises a fully-connected neural network or a convolutional neural network. 15. Non-transitory computer storage media storing instructions that when executed by a system of one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
executing a software-platform associated with analyzing events obtained via an acquisition device or based one or more datasets stored by a database, the software-platform sorting cell populations indicated in the events;
receiving user input, via a user interface of the software-platform, indicating selection of a deep-learning module, the deep-learning module being obtained via a network to supplement the software-platform;
analyzing, by the software-platform, the events and selecting a machine learning model trained, at least in part, based on similar phenotype information as indicated in the events;
applying the machine learning model via generating a forward pass of information generated based on the events, the information being normalized based on the events; and
assigning, based on the machine learning model, respective classifications to the events.
16. The computer storage media of claim 15, wherein phenotype information comprises one or more of phenotypes comprising surface markers, surface receptors, and/or antogens.
17. The computer storage media of claims 15 to 16, wherein the deep-learning module accesses an online repository of machine learning models, and wherein the machine learning models were created by users of the software-based platform.
18. The computer storage media of claims 15 to 17, wherein selecting machine learning model comprises:
based on the events, identifying phenotypes usable to sort cell populations of immune cells;
accessing metadata associated with one or more machine learning models, the metadata identifying phenotypes and/or cell populations used for training the machine learning models; and
selecting the machine learning model based on the accessed metadata.
19. The computer storage media of claims 15 to 18, wherein the operations further comprise:
instructing a flow cytometer to sort cell populations according to the assigned classifications.
20. The computer storage media of claims 15 to 19, wherein the operations further comprise:
adjusting sensitivity of a detector based on the classifications, the detector providing events for analysis to the software-platform.
</claims>
</document>
