<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B22F3/105,B33Y50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
IYER, NARESH
ROYCHOWDHURY, SUBHRAJIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67997701
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR GENERATING DEVICE-SPECIFIC MACHINE LEARNING MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
A method of transferring operational parameter sets between different domains of additive manufacturing machines includes creating a parameter set for a first additive manufacturing machine domain, accessing a model of a second additive manufacturing machine domain, creating a second parameter set of operational settings used to operate the second additive manufacturing machine, obtaining a second sensor data suite during the operation of the second additive manufacturing machine, comparing the second sensor data suite to one or more predetermined performance thresholds to determine if a product sample is within quality assurance metrics, and if the product sample is not within the quality assurance metrics, adjusting the second parameter set. A system for implementing the method and a non-transitory computer-readable medium are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of transferring operational parameter sets between different domains of additive manufacturing machines, the method comprising:
creating a parameter set for a first additive manufacturing machine configured in a first machine domain, the parameter set representing operational settings for the first additive manufacturing machine;
accessing a model of a second additive manufacturing machine configured in a second machine domain;
creating a second parameter set, the second parameter set representing operational settings for the second additive manufacturing machine;
operating the second additive manufacturing machine using the operational settings of the second parameter set, the second additive manufacturing machine producing a product sample;
obtaining a second sensor data suite during the operation of the second additive manufacturing machine, the second sensor data suite representing monitored performance conditions of one or more components of the second additive manufacturing machine;
comparing the second sensor data suite to one or more predetermined performance thresholds to determine if the product sample is within quality assurance metrics; and
if the product sample is not within the quality assurance metrics, then adjusting the second parameter set.
2. The method of claim 1, including:
obtaining a first sensor data suite, the first sensor data suite including values monitored during operation of the first additive manufacturing machine;
accessing a model of the first additive manufacturing machine; and
incorporating the first sensor data suite into the first additive manufacturing machine model to create the first machine domain parameter set.
3. The method of claim 2, monitoring performance conditions of one or more components of a first additive manufacturing machine to obtain the first sensor data suite.
4. The method of any preceding claim, including incorporating the first machine domain parameter set into the second machine domain model by applying transfer learning techniques to obtain the second parameter set.
5. The method of claim 4, including:
learning one or more functional differences between the first machine domain and the second machine domain; and
the transfer learning techniques including adjusting the first machine domain parameter set using the functional differences.
6. The method of any preceding claim, the one or more predetermined performance thresholds representing expected operational performance indicators for the second machine domain.
7. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions which when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform a transferring operational parameter sets between different domains of additive manufacturing machines, the method comprising:
creating a parameter set for a first additive manufacturing machine configured in a first machine domain, the parameter set representing operational settings for the first additive manufacturing machine;
accessing a model of a second additive manufacturing machine configured in a second machine domain;
creating a second parameter set, the second parameter set representing operational settings for the second additive manufacturing machine;
operating the second additive manufacturing machine using the operational settings of the second parameter set, the second additive manufacturing machine producing a product sample; obtaining a second sensor data suite during the operation of the second additive manufacturing machine, the second sensor data suite representing monitored performance conditions of one or more components of the second additive manufacturing machine;
comparing the second sensor data suite to one or more predetermined performance thresholds to determine if the product sample is within quality assurance metrics; and
if the product sample is not within the quality assurance metrics, then adjusting the second parameter set.
8. The medium of claim 7, the executable instructions causing the processor to perform the method by:
obtaining a first sensor data suite, the first sensor data suite including values monitored during operation of the first additive manufacturing machine;
accessing a model of the first additive manufacturing machine; and
incorporating the first sensor data suite into the first additive manufacturing machine model to create the first machine domain parameter set.
9. The medium of claim 8, the executable instructions causing the processor to perform the method by monitoring performance conditions of one or more components of a first additive manufacturing machine to obtain the first sensor data suite.
10. The medium of any of claims 7-9, the executable instructions causing the processor to perform the method by incorporating the first machine domain parameter set into the second machine domain model by applying transfer learning techniques to obtain the second parameter set.
11. The medium of claim 10, the executable instructions causing the processor to perform the method by:
learning one or more functional differences between the first machine domain and the second machine domain; and the transfer learning techniques including adjusting the first machine domain parameter set using the functional differences.
12. The medium of any of claims 7-11, the executable instructions causing the processor to perform the method, wherein the one or more predetermined performance thresholds represents expected operational performance indicators for the second machine domain.
</claims>
</document>
