<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F21S2/00,F21V7/00,G01N21/63,G01N21/64,G02B21/06,G02B21/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ESSENLIX CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOU, STEPHEN
DING WEI
QI, JI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71613601
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-MODE ILLUMINATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A multi-mode illumination system, including: a first illumination module; a second illumination module; and a third illumination module, as disclosed herein.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A multi-mode illumination system, comprising:
a first illumination module, comprising:
a parabolic reflector;
a first light source disposed at the focus point of the parabolic reflector, a first optical filter disposed between an imager and a sample holder; and a second optical filter disposed between the parabolic reflector and the sample holder, wherein the second optical filter is configured to allow an excitation wavelength to pass therethrough towards the sample holder,
a second illumination module, comprising:
a right-angle prism; and a second light source oriented towards the right-angle prism, wherein the right-angle prism reflects or redirects light emitted from the second light source towards the sample holder,
a third illumination module, comprising:
a light extraction plate including a light scattering structure disposed on a surface thereof;
a third light source configured to emit light into the light extraction plate;
a third optical filter; and
a light diffuser film disposed between the third optical filter and the light extraction plate, wherein the light scattering structure extracts non-coherent light emitted from the third light source from the light extraction plate towards the sample holder, and wherein the first illumination module, the second illumination module, and the third illumination module are fixed relative to the sample holder.
2. A multi-mode illumination system, comprising:
a sample holder;
a first illumination module, comprising:
a parabolic reflector;
a first light source disposed at the focus point of the parabolic reflector, a first optical filter disposed between an imager and the sample holder; and a second optical filter disposed between the parabolic reflector and the sample holder, wherein the second optical filter is configured to allow an excitation wavelength to pass therethrough towards the sample holder,
a second illumination module, comprising: a right-angle prism; and
a second light source oriented towards the right-angle prism, wherein the rightangle prism reflects or redirects light emitted from the second light source towards the sample holder,
a third illumination module, comprising:
a light extraction plate including a light scattering structure disposed on a surface thereof;
a third light source configured to emit light into the light extraction plate;
a third optical filter; and
a light diffuser film disposed between the third optical filter and the light extraction plate, wherein the light scattering structure extracts non-coherent light emitted from the third light source from the light extraction plate towards the sample holder, and wherein the first illumination module, the second illumination module, and the third illumination module are fixed relative to the sample holder.
3. A multi-mode illumination system, comprising:
an imager;
a sample holder;
a first illumination module, comprising:
a parabolic reflector;
a first light source disposed at the focus point of the parabolic reflector, a first optical filter disposed between the imager and the sample holder; and a second optical filter disposed between the parabolic reflector and the sample holder, wherein the second optical filter is configured to allow an excitation wavelength to pass therethrough towards the sample holder,
a second illumination module, comprising:
a right-angle prism; and
a second light source oriented towards the right-angle prism, wherein the rightangle prism reflects or redirects light emitted from the second light source towards the sample holder,
a third illumination module, comprising:
a light extraction plate including a light scattering structure disposed on a surface thereof;
a third light source configured to emit light into the light extraction plate; a third optical filter; and
a light diffuser film disposed between the third optical filter and the light extraction plate, wherein the light scattering structure extracts non-coherent light emitted from the third light source from the light extraction plate towards the sample holder, and wherein the first illumination module, the second illumination module, and the third illumination module are fixed relative to the sample holder.
4. The system of any prior claim, further comprising an imager including a field of view and a collection angle, wherein the imager is configured to image a sample disposed on a sample holder.
5. The system of any prior claim, further comprising a sample holder.
6. The system of any prior claim, wherein the parabolic reflector is configured to collimate light emitted by the first light source.
7. The system of any prior claim, wherein the parabolic reflector is oriented towards an imager, such that the first light source can illuminate a field of view of an imager on a sample holder.
8. The system of any prior claim, wherein the excitation wavelength that passes through the second optical filter is complimentary to a specific fluorophore disposed on a sample holder, such that it is configured to excite the fluorophore and provide fluorescent excitation illumination.
9. The system of any prior claim, wherein the right-angle prism includes a first leg face, a second leg face, a hypotenuse leg face, and a dielectric/air interface, wherein the second light source is oriented towards the hypotenuse leg face of the right-angle prism, and wherein the hypotenuse leg face of the right-angle prism reflects or redirects light emitted from the second light source to the sample holder.
10. The system of any prior claim, wherein the right-angle prism is disposed adjacent the third optical filter.
11. The system of any prior claim, wherein the right-angle prism is disposed between the light extraction plate and the imager.
12. The system of any prior claim, wherein the right-angle prism is aligned with the center of the field of view of the imager and the center of the light extraction plate.
13. The system of any prior claim, wherein the third light source is embedded in the light extraction plate.
14. The system of any prior claim, wherein the light diffuser film is configured to filter the extracted non-coherent light and provide a more uniform non-coherent light distribution over a surface area of the light extraction plate.
15. The system of any prior claim, wherein the third optical filter is configured to allow a specific wavelength of the extracted non-coherent light to pass
therethrough towards the sample holder.
16. The system of any prior claim, wherein the extracted non-coherent light illuminates the sample holder under the field of view of the imager to provide non coherent illumination.
17. The system of any prior claim, wherein the sample holder is a QMAX device.
18. The system of any prior claim, wherein the right-angle prism includes a first leg face and a second leg face that are adjacent to the hypotenuse leg face of the right-angle prism.
19. The system of any prior claim, wherein the first leg face and the second leg face of the right-angle prism each include a length in the range of 5mm-50mm.
20. The system of any prior claim, wherein the first leg face and the second leg face of the right-angle prism each include a length 10mm.
21. The system of any prior claim, wherein the distance between the right-angle prism and the sample holder is in the range of 1 mm-20mm.
22. The system of any prior claim, wherein the light diffuser film is disposed adjacent the light scattering structure of the light extraction plate.
23. The system of any prior claim, wherein the light diffuser film is disposed on the light scattering structure of the light extraction plate.
24. The system of any prior claim, wherein the light diffuser film is adhered to the light scattering structure of the light extraction plate.
25. The system of any prior claim, wherein the third optical filter is disposed adjacent the light diffuser film.
26. The system of any prior claim, wherein the third optical filter is disposed on the light diffuser film.
27. The system of any prior claim, wherein the third optical filter is adhered to the light diffuser film.
28. The system of any prior claim, wherein the right-angle prism is disposed adjacent the third optical filter.
29. The system of any prior claim, wherein the right-angle prism is disposed on the third optical filter.
30. The system of any prior claim, wherein a center of the hypotenuse leg face of the right-angle prism is aligned with a center of the field of view of an imager.
31. The system of any prior claim, wherein the second light source is oriented towards and aligned with a center of the hypotenuse leg face.
32. The system of any prior claim, wherein the distance between a center of the hypotenuse leg face of the right-angle prism and a center of the field of view of the imager is less than 1 mm.
33. The system of any prior claim, wherein the distance between a center of the hypotenuse leg face of the right-angle prism and the second light source is in the range of 5mm-100mm.
34. The system of any prior claim, wherein the distance between a center of the hypotenuse leg face of the right-angle prism and a center of the second light source is less than 1 mm.
35. The system of any prior claim, wherein the parabolic reflector is configured to direct the light emitted from the first light source towards the imager in an oblique angle which is larger than the collection angle of the imager.
36. The system of any prior claim, wherein the placement of the parabolic reflector is configured to direct the light emitted from the first light source towards the imager in an oblique angle in the range of 40°-80°.
37. The system of any prior claim, wherein the diameter of the parabolic reflector is in the range of 5mm-20mm.
38. The system of any prior claim, wherein the distance between the first light source and the imager is in the range of 10mm-200mm.
39. The system of any prior claim, wherein the distance between the right-angle prism and the third optical filter is in the range of 0.1 mm-5mm.
40. The system of any prior claim, wherein the distance between the third optical filter and the light diffuser film is in the range of 0.1 mm-5mm.
41 . The system of any prior claim, wherein the distance between the light diffuser film and the light extraction plate is in the range of 0.1 mm-5mm.
42. The system of any prior claim, wherein the thickness of the light extraction plate is in the range of 0.5mm-5mm.
43. The system of any prior claim, wherein a surface area of the light emitting surface of light extraction plate is in the range of 1 cm2-100cm2.
44. The system of any prior claim, wherein the dielectric/air interface of the hypotenuse leg face of the right-angle prism reflects or redirects the light emitted from the second light source to the imager.
45. The system of any prior claim, wherein the light extracted from the light extraction plate passes through the right-angle prism towards the imager so as to provide non-coherent illumination.
46. The system of any prior claim, wherein the dimension of the hypotenuse leg face of the right-angle prism is larger than a dimension of the field of view of imager.
47. The system of any prior claim, wherein the reflectivity of the dielectric/air interface of the right-angle prism is in the range of 1 %-50%.
48. The system of any prior claim, wherein the light scattering structures are selected from the group consisting of particulates, random textured surfaces, periodic gratings, painted white dots, line arrays, dot arrays, and microlens arrays.
49. A multi-mode illumination system for imaging, comprising: a bright-field illumination module, comprising: a light source; a right-angle prism; an imager; and a sample;
a fluorescent excitation illumination module, comprising: a light source; a parabolic reflector; an excitation optical filter; an emission optical filter; an imager; and a sample; and
a non-coherent illumination module, comprising: a light source; a light extraction plate; a light diffuser; an optical filter; an imager; and a sample.
50. The system of any prior claim, wherein the light source of non-coherent illumination module is embedded in the light extraction plate.
52. The system of any prior claim, wherein the sample is a QMAX device.
53. The system of any prior claim, the optimized length of the leg of the prism is 10mm.
54. The system of any prior claim, the length of the leg of prism can be 5mm, 10mm, 20mm, 50mm, and in a range between any of the two values.
55. The system of any prior claim, the optimized distance between the prism and the sample is as close as possible.
56. The system of any prior claim, the distance between the prism and the sample is 1 mm, 5mm, 10mm, 20mm, and in a range between any of the two values.
57. The system of any prior claim, wherein the light diffuser film is put on top of the light extraction plate, and an optical filter is put on top of the diffuser film and a right-angle prism is put on top of the optical filter.
58. The system of any prior claim, wherein the centers of the prism are aligned with the center of field of view of imager and light source of bright-field
illumination respectively.
59. The system of any of prior claim, wherein the distance between the center of the prism and the center of the field of view of imager is smaller than 1 mm.
60. The system of any of prior claim, wherein the distance between the center of the prism and the center of the light source of bright-filed illumination is smaller than 1 mm.
61. The system of any prior claim, wherein the placement of the parabolic reflector is configured to direct the light emitted from the light source of the fluorescent illumination module towards the imager in an oblique angle which is larger than the collection angle of the imager.
62. The system of any prior claim, wherein the placement of the parabolic reflector is configured to direct the light emitted from the light source of the fluorescent illumination module towards the imager in an oblique angle which can be 40 degrees, 50 degrees, 60 degrees, 70 degrees, 80 degrees, and in a range between any of the two value.
63. The system of any prior claim, wherein the diameter of the parabolic reflector can be 5mm, 10mm, 15mm, 20mm, and in a range between any of the two values.
64. The system of any prior claim, wherein the distance between the light source of bright-field illumination and the center of the sloping side of the prism can be 5mm, 10mm, 20mm, 50mm, 100mm, and in a range between any of those values.
65. The system of any prior claim, wherein the distance between the light source of fluorescent illumination and the imager can be 10mm, 20mm, 50mm, 100mm, 200mm and in a range between any of the two values.
66. The system of any of prior claim, wherein the optimized distance between the prism and the optical filer is as close as possible.
67. The system of any of prior claim, wherein the distance between the prism and the optical filer is can be 0.1 mm, 1 mm, 2mm, 5mm, and in a range between any of those two values.
68. The system of any of prior claim, wherein the optimized distance between the optical filter and the diffuser film is as close as possible.
69. The system of any of prior claim, wherein the distance between the optical filter and the diffuser film is 0.1 mm, 1 mm, 2mm, 5mm, and in a range between any of those two values.
70. The system of any of prior claim, wherein the optimized distance between the diffuser film and the light extraction plate is as close as possible.
71. The system of any of prior claim, wherein the distance between the diffuser film and the light extraction plate is 0.1 mm, 1 mm, 2mm, 5mm, and in a range between any of those two values.
72. The system of any of prior claim, wherein the thickness of the light extraction plate is 0.5mm, 1 mm, 2mm, 5mm, and in a range between any of the two values.
73. The system of any of prior claim, wherein the surface area of the light emitting surface of light extraction plate can be 1 cmA2, 10cmA2, 25cmA2, 50cmA2, 100cmA2, and in a range between any of the two values.
74. The system of any of prior claim, wherein the right-angle prism redirects the bright-filed illumination light emitted from the light source to the imager.
75. The system of any of prior claim, wherein the light extracted from the light extraction plate surface penetrate through the right-angle prism towards the imager for non-coherent illumination.
76. The system if any of prior claim, wherein the dimension of leg of right-angle prism in the field of view on imager is larger than the shortest lateral dimension of the field of view of imager. 77. The system of any of prior claim, wherein the reflectivity of right-angle surface of the prism is 1 %, 5%, 10%, 20%, 50% or in a range between any of the two values.
78. The system of any of prior claim, wherein the light extraction plate has light scattering structures on the surface that extract light and the light scattering structures are random textured surfaces, periodic gratings, painted white dots, micro/nano-size particles.
</claims>
</document>
