<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/6853,C12Q1/686,C12Q1/6876
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GENEPATH DIAGNOSTICS INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANAND, SIDDHARTH
GANESAN, KARTHIK
PHADKE, NIKHIL
AGARWAL, Meenal
PATIL, Kunal
RANADE, Shatakshi
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72941818
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR DETECTING SPECIFIC NUCLEIC ACIDS IN SAMPLES
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are methods for detecting specific nucleotide sequences in samples. Methods include generating, from the specific nucleotide sequences, nucleic acid constructs containing probe-identification sequences and sample identification sequences, pooling the nucleic acid constructs from the samples into a single combined sample, and determining the abundance of the specific nucleotide sequences in the samples by quantifying the probe-identification sequences and sample-identification sequences of the nucleic acid constructs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining the abundance of each of one or more target nucleotide sequences in each of one or more samples, the method comprising:
(a) generating nucleic acid constructs from the one or more target nucleotide sequences in the more or more samples, each of the nucleic acid constructs comprising:
(i) a probe-identification sequence (PIDS) that identifies the target nucleotide sequence from which the nucleic acid construct is derived; and
(ii) a sample identification sequence (SIDS) that identifies the sample from which the nucleic acid construct is derived;
(b) pooling the nucleic acid constructs from the one or more samples into a single combined sample;
(c) quantifying the PIDS and the SIDS of the nucleic acid constructs, thereby obtaining quantification results; and
(d) determining the abundance of each of the one or more target nucleotide sequences for each of the one or more samples based on the quantification results.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid constructs are generated by:
(a) contacting each of the one or more samples with a first set of targetspecific probes (TSPls) and a second set of target-specific probes (TSP2s) under sufficient conditions and for a sufficient time to allow the TSPls and TSP2s to hybridize to their target nucleotide sequences, wherein each of the TSPls comprises, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a first common adaptor (CA1), a first PIDS (PIDS1) and a first target-specific sequence (TSS1), and wherein each of the TSP2s comprises, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a second target-specific sequence (TSS2), a second PIDS (PIDS2) and a second common adaptor (CA2);
(b) contacting each of the one or more samples containing TSPls and TSP2 with a ligase under sufficient conditions and for a sufficient time, such that if the TSS1 and TSS2 hybridized to the target nucleotide sequence and the 3' end of TSS1 and the 5' end of TSS2 are immediately adjacent to each other, then the TSP1 and TSP2 are ligated by the ligase to form a ligation product (LP); and (c) amplifying by PCR the LPs to produce the nucleic acid constructs, the PCR amplification step comprising:
(i) amplifying the LPs by PCR using a first PCR primer comprising, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a first tethering adaptor (TA1), a first SIDS (SIDS1), and a sequence corresponding to the CA1; and
(ii) amplifying the IAs by PCR using a second PCR primer comprising, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a second TA (TA2), a second SIDS (SIDS2), and a sequence corresponding to the CA2, thereby generating the nucleic acid construct.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid constructs are generated by:
(a) contacting each of the one or more samples with a first set of targetspecific probes (TSPls) and a second set of target-specific probes (TSP2s) under sufficient conditions and for a sufficient time to allow the TSPls and TSP2s to hybridize to their target nucleotide sequences, wherein each of the TSPls comprises, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a first common adaptor (CA1), a first PIDS (PIDS1) and a first target-specific sequence (TSS1), and wherein each of the TSP2s comprises, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a second target-specific sequence (TSS2), a second PIDS (PIDS2) and a second common adaptor (CA2);
(b) contacting each of the one or more samples containing TSPls and TSP2s with a polymerase and nucleic acids under sufficient condition and for a sufficient time to allow extension of a TSP1 at the 3' end, if the TSP1 is hybridized to a target nucleotide sequence,
(c) contacting each of the one or more samples containing TSPls and TSP2s with a ligase under sufficient condition and for a sufficient time to allow ligation of a TSP1 with a TSP2 if the 3' end of the TSP1 is immediately adjacent to the 5' end of the TSP2;
(d) amplifying by PCR the LPs to produce a one or more nucleic acid constructs, the PCR amplification step comprising:
(i) amplifying the LP by PCR using a first PCR primer comprising a TA1, the SIDS, and a sequence corresponding to the CA1, thereby generating a plurality of intermediate amplicons (IAs), each IAs comprising a TA1; and (ii) amplifying the IAs by PCR using a second PCR primer comprising a TA2, a sample identification sequence (SIDS), and a sequence corresponding to the CA2, thereby generating the amplicons.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid constructs are generated by:
(a) amplifying the target nucleotide sequences by PCR using a first primer, the first primer comprising, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a first common adaptor (CA1), a first PIDS (PIDS1), and a first TSS (TSS1), thereby generating first intermediary PCR products (IPP1);
(b) amplifying the IPP1 by PCR using a second primer, the second primer comprising, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a second common adaptor (CA2), a second PIDS (PIDS2), and a second TSS (TSS2), thereby generating second intermediary PCR products (IPP2);
(c) amplifying the IPP2 by PCR using a third primer, the third primer comprising, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a first Tethering Adapter (TA1), a first SIDS (SIDS1), and a sequence corresponding to CA1, thereby generating third intermediary PCR products (IPP3);
(d) amplifying the IPP3 by PCR using a fourth primer, the fourth primer comprising, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a second Tethering Adapter (TA2), a second SIDS (SIDS2), and a sequence corresponding to CA2, thereby generating the nucleic acid constructs.
5. The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the PIDSs can comprise distinct nucleotide sequences chosen from the nucleotide sequences disclosed in Appendix A or Appendix B.
6. The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the SIDS can comprise distinct nucleotide sequences chosen from the nucleotide sequences disclosed in Appendix A or Appendix B.
7. The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein at least one of the one or more target nucleotide sequences is associated with a genetic disorder, a cancer, or an infectious disease.
8. A method of claim 7, wherein the genetic disorder is selected from spinal muscular atrophy, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Becker muscular dystrophy, alpha thalassemia, microdeletion and microduplication syndromes associated with neurodevelopmental disorder, autism, atypical hemolytic uraemic syndrome, beta thalassemia, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, thrombophilia, lysosomal storage disorders, Prader-Willi syndrome, Angelmann syndrome. Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, Silver-Russell Syndrome, or fragile-X syndrome.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the cancer is selected from hereditary breast cancer, hereditary ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, renal cancer, cerebellar cancer, colon cancer, or retinoblastoma.
10. A method of claim 7, wherein the infectious disease is caused by chikungunya virus, dengue virus, plasmodium, Zika, cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, herpes simplex virus, varicella zoster virus, adenovirus, human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus, human papillomavirus, Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG), Chlamydia trachomatis (CT), Trichomonas vaginalis (TV), Mycoplasma sp., influenza virus, S. pneumoniae, K. pneumonia, S. aureus, Salmonella, fungus, Pseudomonas, E. coli, Proteus, Acinetobacter, influenza A virus subtype H INI, or severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).
11. The method of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the nucleic acid constructs are double-stranded DNA.
12. The method of any one of claims 2-11, wherein the 5' ends of the TSP2s are phosphorylated.
13. The method of any one of claims 1-12, wherein at least one of the target nucleotide sequences comprises a sequence corresponding to a genomic DNA sequence that contains an genetic aberration, the genetic aberration being a single nucleotide polymorphism, insertion, deletion, duplication, rearrangement, truncation, or translocation, as compared to a wild-type genomic DNA sequence.
14. The method of any one of claims 1-13, wherein at least one of the target nucleotide sequences comprises nucleotide sequences having abnormal methylation status as compared to a wild-type DNA sequence.
15. The method of any one of claims 1-14, wherein the one or more samples comprise samples from one or more subjects.
16. The method of any one of claims 1-15, wherein the one or more samples comprise blood, bone marrow, cerebrospinal fluid, pleural fluid, or urine.
17. The method of any one of claims 1-16, wherein the one or more samples are from a single subject, obtained at different times.
18. The method of any one of claims 1-11, wherein the one or more samples comprise at least 100 samples, at least 1,000 samples, at least 10,000 samples, at least 100,000 samples, at least 1,000,000 samples, at least 10,000,000 samples, at least 100,000,000 samples, or at least 1,000,000,000 samples.
19. The method of any one of claims 1-11, wherein the one or more target nucleotide sequences comprise at least 100 target nucleotide sequences, at least 1,000 target nucleotide sequences, at least 10,000 target nucleotide sequences, at least 100,000 target nucleotide sequences, at least 1,000,000 target nucleotide sequences, at least 10,000,000 target nucleotide sequences, at least 100,000,000 target nucleotide sequences, or at least 1,000,000,000 target nucleotide sequences.
20. The method of any one of claims 1-19, wherein the PIDSs and/or the SIDSs comprise oligonucleotides having specific sequences.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the PIDS is between 4 and 7 nucleotides, between 8 and 12 nucleotides, between 13 and 16 nucleotides, between 17-20 nucleotides, or greater than 21 nucleotides in length.
22. The method of claim 20, wherein the SIDS is between 4 and 7 nucleotides, between 8 and 12 nucleotides, between 13 and 16 nucleotides, between 17-20 nucleotides, or greater than 21 nucleotides in length.
23. The method of any one of claims 1-22, wherein the PIDS and/or the SIDS comprises a Raman spectrometry tag or a mass spectrometry tag.
24. The method of any one of claims 1-22, wherein the PIDS and/or the SIDS comprises a fluorescent tag.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the fluorescent tag comprises a quantum dot or a NanoString probe.
26. The method of any one of claims 1-25, wherein quantification of the PIDS and/or the SIDS measures relative abundance of PIDS and/or SIDS as compared to PIDS and/or SIDS associated with one or more reference TSSs (RTSSs).
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the RTSSs comprise OCA2, KLKB, IL4, SETX, PARD3, HIPK3, AMOT, LAMA2, SPAST, and/or PPHLN1.
28. The method of any one of claims 1-27, wherein the PIDS1 and PIDS2 targeting the same target nucleotide sequence are different from each other.
29. The method of any one of claims 1-28, wherein the PIDS1 and PIDS2 targeting the same target nucleotide sequence are the same.
30. The method of any one of claims 1-29, wherein SIDS1 and SIDS2 targeting the same target nucleotide sequence are different from each other.
31. The method of any one of claims 1-30, wherein SIDS1 and SIDS2 targeting the same target nucleotide sequence are the same.
32. The method of any one of claims 1-31, wherein each of the PIDSs and/or SIDSs comprise sequences having an edit distance (Levenshtein) of 2 or more from any other PIDSs and/or SIDSs.
33. The method of any one of claims 2-32, wherein the TSS is between 10 and 50 nucleotides, between 15 and 40 nucleotides, or between 20 and 30 nucleotides in length.
34. The method of any one of claims 2-33, wherein the CA is between 10 and 60 nucleotides, between 20 and 50 nucleotides, or between 30 and 40 nucleotides in length.
35. The method of any one of claims 1-34, wherein the one or more target nucleotide sequences comprise one or more reference sequences.
36. The method of claim 2, wherein the TSS1 and the TSS2 each comprises a nucleic acid sequence that is complementary to at least a portion of the target nucleotide sequence.
37. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the abundance of each of the one or more target nucleotide sequences for each of the one or more samples comprises: accessing the quantification results, each of the quantification results being associated with at least one read sequence; classifying the quantification results, using a classifier engine comprising one or more processing devices, by identifying (i) one of the one or more target nucleotide sequences, and (ii) one of the one or more samples, from each of the corresponding read sequences.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the at least one read sequence comprises a first read sequence usable for identifying the one of the one or more target nucleotide sequences, and a second read sequence usable for one of the one or more samples.
39. The method of claim 37, wherein the classifier engine implements a classification process based on a trie search structure.
40. The method of claim 37, comprising:
determining, by the classifier engine, that an edit distance between a particular read sequence and a particular target nucleotide sequence satisfies a threshold condition; and
responsive to determining that the edit distance between the particular read sequence and the particular target nucleotide sequence satisfies the threshold condition, identifying the particular read sequence as the particular target nucleotide sequence.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein the threshold condition is determined to be satisfied if the edit distance between the particular read sequence and the particular target nucleotide sequence is less than 3.
42. A kit for determining the abundance of each of a plurality of target sequences in each of a plurality of samples, the kit comprising:
(a) a set of TSP 1 s corresponding to the plurality of target sequences and reference sequences and reference sequences, the set of TSP Is each comprising, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a first common adaptor (CA1), a first PIDS (PIDS1) and a first target-specific sequence (TSS1); (b) a set of TSP2s corresponding to the plurality of target sequences and reference sequences, the set of TSPls each comprising, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a second target-specific sequence (TSS2), a second PIDS (PIDS2) and a second common adaptor (CA2);
(c) a set of first PCR primers comprising, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a first tethering adaptor (TA1), a first SIDS (SIDS1), and a sequence corresponding to the CA1;
(d) a set of second PCR primers comprising, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a second tethering adaptor (TA2), a second SIDS (SIDS2), and a sequence corresponding to the CA2; and
(e) optionally, a ligase and/or a polymerase.
43. A kit for determining the abundance of each of a plurality of target sequences having specific sequences in each of a plurality of samples, the kit comprising:
(a) a set of first primers corresponding to the plurality of target sequences and reference sequences, the set of first primers each comprising, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a first common adaptor (CA1), a first PIDS (PIDS1), and a first TSS (TSS1), thereby generating first intermediary PCR products (IPP1);
(b) a set of second primers corresponding to the plurality of target sequences and reference sequences, the set of second primers each comprising, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a second common adaptor (CA2), a second PIDS (PIDS2), and a second TSS (TSS2), thereby generating second intermediary PCR products (IPP2);
(c) a set of third primers corresponding to the sequences of the CA1, the set of second primers each comprising, from the 5' end to the 3' end, a first Tethering Adapter (TA1), a first SIDS (SIDS1), and a sequence corresponding to CA1;
(d) a set of fourth primers corresponding to the sequences of the CA2, the set of second primers each comprising, from the 5' end to the 3' end a second Tethering adapter (TA2), a second SIDS (SIDS2), and a sequence corresponding to CA2; and
(e) optionally, a polymerase.
44. A method of diagnosing one or more conditions in one or more subjects by detecting the presence or absence of one or more nucleic acid alteration in the plurality of subjects, the method comprising:
(a) obtaining a plurality of samples from the plurality of subjects;
(b) performing the method of any one of claims 1-41 to determine the abundance of each of the plurality of target genes in each of the plurality of samples; and
(c) diagnosing the one or more conditions that are each associated with the abundance of one or more of the plurality of target genes for each of the plurality of samples.
45. The method of claim 44, further comprising treating the subjects for the condition diagnosed.
</claims>
</document>
