<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/18,H04M3/56,H04S3/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DOLBY LABORATORIES LICENSING CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
DENG FENG
DICKINS, GLENN N.
JOHNSTON, CRAIG
HOLMBERG, Paul
ECKERT, Michael
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70417472
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SCALABLE VOICE SCENE MEDIA SERVER
</title>

<abstract>
A communication system, method, and computer-readable medium therefor comprise a media server configured to receive a plurality of audio streams from a corresponding plurality of client devices, the media server including circuitry configured to rank the plurality of audio streams based on a predetermined metric, group a first portion of the plurality of audio streams into a first set, the first portion of the plurality of audio streams being the N highest-ranked audio streams, group a second portion of the plurality of audio streams into a second set, the second portion of the plurality of audio streams being the M lowest-ranked audio streams, forward respective audio streams of the first set to a receiver device, and discard respective audio streams of the second set, wherein N and M are independent integers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A communication system, comprising:
a media server configured to receive a plurality of audio streams from a
corresponding plurality of client devices, the media server including circuitry configured to:
rank the plurality of audio streams based on a predetermined metric; wherein the metric for an audio stream comprises a weighted energy of a frame of the audio stream; wherein the weighted energy of the frame of the audio stream is determined using a weighting function which de-emphasizes spectral frequency content with a frequency below 1000 Hz and which emphasizes spectral frequency content with a frequency above 4000 Hz, group a first portion of the plurality of audio streams into a first set, the first portion of the plurality of audio streams being the N highest-ranked audio streams,
group a second portion of the plurality of audio streams into a second set, the second portion of the plurality of audio streams being the M lowest-ranked audio streams, forward respective audio streams of the first set to a receiver device, and discard respective audio streams of the second set,
wherein N and M are independent integers.
2. The communication system according to claim 1, the circuitry further configured to:
group a third portion of the plurality of audio streams into a third set, the third portion of the plurality of audio streams being the audio streams ranked between the first portion and the second portion, and
mix an audio content of the third set into one of the audio streams of the first set.
3. The communication system according to claim 1 or 2, wherein respective ones of the plurality of audio streams include audio data and metadata, the metadata of an audio stream including data indicative of the weighted energy of a frame of the audio stream. 4. The communication system according to any of the claims 1-3, wherein each stream to be forwarded by the server is allocated bits wherein streams of higher rank receive equal or higher bits than streams of lower rank.
5. The communication system according to claim 3 or 4, wherein the metadata of an audio stream further includes data indicating a spatial position in a scene.
6. The communication system according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the receiver device is one of the plurality of client devices. 7. A communication method, comprising:
receiving a plurality of audio streams from a corresponding plurality of client devices; ranking the plurality of audio streams based on a predetermined metric; wherein the metric for an audio stream comprises a weighted energy of a frame of the audio stream;
wherein the weighted energy of the frame of the audio stream is determined using a weighting function which de-emphasizes spectral frequency content with a frequency below 1000 Hz and which emphasizes spectral frequency content with a frequency above 4000 Hz; grouping a first portion of the plurality of audio streams into a first set, the first portion of the plurality of audio streams being the N highest-ranked audio streams;
grouping a second portion of the plurality of audio streams into a second set, the second portion of the plurality of audio streams being the M lowest-ranked audio streams; forwarding respective audio streams of the first set to a receiver device; and discarding respective audio streams of the second set,
wherein N and M are independent integers. 8. The communication method according to claim 7, further comprising:
grouping a third portion of the plurality of audio streams into a third set, the third portion of the plurality of audio streams being the audio streams ranked between the first portion and the second portion, and
mixing an audio content of the third set into one of the audio streams of the first set.
9. The communication method according to claim 7 or 8, wherein respective ones of the plurality of audio streams include audio data and metadata, the metadata of an audio stream including data indicative of the weighted energy of a frame of the audio stream. 10. The communication method according to any of the claims 7-9, wherein each stream is allocated bits wherein streams of higher rank receive equal or higher bits than streams of lower rank.
11. The communication method according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the metadata of an audio stream further includes data indicating a spatial position in a scene.
12. The communication method according to any one of claims 7-11, wherein the receiver device is one of the plurality of client devices.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processor of a media server, cause the media server to perform operations comprising:
receiving a plurality of audio streams from a corresponding plurality of client devices; ranking the plurality of audio streams based on a predetermined metric; wherein the metric for an audio stream comprises a weighted energy of a frame of the audio stream;
wherein the weighted energy of the frame of the audio stream is determined using a weighting function which de-emphasizes spectral frequency content with a frequency below 1000 Hz and which emphasizes spectral frequency content with a frequency above 4000 Hz; grouping a first portion of the plurality of audio streams into a first set, the first portion of the plurality of audio streams being the N highest-ranked audio streams;
grouping a second portion of the plurality of audio streams into a second set, the second portion of the plurality of audio streams being the M lowest-ranked audio streams; forwarding respective audio streams of the first set to a receiver device; and discarding respective audio streams of the second set,
wherein N and M are independent integers.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 13, further comprising:
grouping a third portion of the plurality of audio streams into a third set, the third portion of the plurality of audio streams being the audio streams ranked between the first portion and the second portion, and
mixing an audio content of the third set into one of the audio streams of the first set.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 13 or 14, wherein respective ones of the plurality of audio streams include audio data and metadata, the metadata of an audio stream including data indicative of the weighted energy of a frame of the audio stream.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any of claims 13-15, wherein each stream is allocated bits wherein streams of higher rank receive equal or higher bits than streams of lower rank. 17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any of the claims 13-
16, wherein the metadata of an audio stream further includes data indicating a spatial position in a scene.
</claims>
</document>
