<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A21C14/00,A21C9/00,A21C9/04,G05B13/02,G05B19/05
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VIVID ROBOTICS, INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
WOOD, CLAYTON
ANDERSON, COLTON
LALISH, EMMETT
HAN, KYU
DE VITIS, Brian
XIA, Shiyu
ROGERS, Cole
WILLSON, Andrea
WRIGHT, Nicholaus
OCHS, Garett
REINECKE, Kort
SOLKE, Derek
SPADA, Nicholas Alan
VAN TILBURG, Sage Paladeni
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72521318
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT FOOD PREPARATION ROBOT AND METHOD FOR USE
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to apparatus and methods for assembling food products. More particularly, the invention relates to apparatus and methods for associating foodstuff and liquid with a base. Foodstuff may include food items such as meats, vegetables, cheeses, amongst others. Liquids include those food items that have a low viscosities (e.g. sauces, dressings, oils), high viscosities (e.g. peanut butter, frosting), and anything in between. A base can be anything on which foodstuff or liquid may be associated (e.g. bread, cake, cookies, pizza dough, a bowl in which to place foodstuff). Another feature of the apparatus is the ability to collect and monitor integral information for intelligent recalibration, improvement, and estimation of apparatus performance and other measures related to foodstuff, liquid, and assembled food.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim as our invention:
1. An automatic system to associate foodstuff and/or liquid with a base, operating as a
machine control system comprising:
a plurality of electro-mechanical modules, each electro-mechanical module comprising one or more electro-mechanical components positioned to manipulate at least one taken from the set of: foodstuff, liquid or a base, in an operating space, each of the electro-mechanical modules comprising:
a non-transitory computer readable storage medium to store configuration instructions; and
the electro-mechanical components operated by the configuration instructions, the electro-mechanical components and the configuration instructions defining the operating space, wherein the configuration instructions comprise core instructions and modulespecific instructions, wherein the core instructions are stored in the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of each of the electro-mechanical modules, and the modulespecific instructions are stored only in the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of the electro-mechanical modules having the electro-mechanical components to which the modulespecific instructions apply;
logic distributed among the electro-mechanical modules to utilize spatial awareness sensors to form an algorithm to orient the electro-mechanical modules into a hierarchy of modules in response to receiving a first system objective from a source external to the electro-mechanical modules in the hierarchy of modules, the system objective comprising a physical transformation of the foodstuff, liquid, and/or base, wherein orienting into the hierarchy of modules is based on optimizing communication channels and a number of messages to perform the system objective, and to cause the hierarchy of modules to operate to produce an output based on the system objective by repeating the steps of: determining a combined operating space from the operating space of each of the electro-mechanical modules in the hierarchy of modules; from the configuration instructions within each of the electro-mechanical modules, the combined operating space comprising a plurality of actions; selecting a particular action from the plurality of actions stored within each electro-mechanical module operating as a node;
sending a message to one or more of the electro-mechanical modules to perform the action; and performing the action by activating the electro-mechanical components per the configuration instructions. logic to cause the hierarchy of modules to operate in response to receipt of a second system objective from a source external to the electro-mechanical modules in the hierarchy of modules, after receipt of the first system objective, by generating a combined system objective from the first system objective and the second system objective, and by selecting the particular action based on the combined system objective; wherein at least one of the electro-mechanical modules is taken from the set of: a liquid distribution station, a foodstuff distribution station.
2. The machine control system of claim 1 further comprising at least one electro-mechanical module which is a main conveyor belt system.
3. The machine control system of claim 1 wherein at least one of the electro-mechanical modules is a liquid distribution station wherein, the liquid distribution station comprises at least one set of liquid distribution tracks, at least one conduit that provides liquid to at least one liquid distribution nozzle; whereby the liquid distribution nozzle is operably connected to the liquid distribution tracks so as to allow movement of the liquid distribution nozzle along the liquid distribution tracks; where the liquid distribution nozzle moves from at least one first location to at least one second location.
4. The machine control system of claim 1 wherein at least one of the electro-mechanical modules is a foodstuff distribution station, wherein the foodstuff distribution station comprises a foodstuff conveyor belt system having at least one foodstuff conveyor belt and a carriage; whereby the foodstuff conveyor belt is operably attached to the carriage so that when the carriage moves from a first location to a second location the foodstuff conveyor belt moves from the first location to the second location while continuing to rotate around its pulleys; and whereby, when the carriage moves from the second location to the first location, the foodstuff conveyor belt is locked so that it is no longer rotating around its pulleys.
5. The machine control system of claim 1; wherein the electro-mechanical modules utilize websocket protocols to communicate the message.
6. The machine control system of claim 1, wherein the modulespecific instructions are distributed based on a number of the electro-mechanical modules, a likelihood of an additional module being added to the machine control system, or a failure rate of each of the electro-mechanical modules.
7. The machine control system of claim 1, wherein the machine control system is configured to communicate with a server system, the machine control system receiving the system objective from the server system.
8. The machine control system of claim 7, wherein one or more of the electro-mechanical modules send a request to the server system to send additional configuration instructions for an additional module in response to the additional module being detected by the machine control system, the additional configuration instructions distributed among the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of the one or more electro-mechanical modules sending the request.
9. The machine control system of claim 8, wherein the electro-mechanical modules each receive the additional configuration instructions from the server system.
10. The machine control system of claim 7, wherein the electro-mechanical modules store operating information in the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium.
11. The machine control system of claim 9, wherein the operating information is
distributed to the electro-mechanical modules.
12. The machine control system of claim 11, wherein distributing the operating information is based on a number of the electro-mechanical modules, a likelihood of an additional module being added to the machine control system, or a failure rate of each of the electro-mechanical modules.
13. The machine control system of claim 1, wherein the electro-mechanical modules send the configuration instructions to an additional module in response to the additional module being detected by the machine control system, the configuration instructions distributed among the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of the electro-mechanical modules.
14. The machine control system of claim 7, wherein the server system communicates with a machine learning component.
15. The machine learning component of claim 14 comprising:
a computer implemented method of for anticipating the production needs of the apparatus comprising the steps of:
inputting orders containing informational content;
generating datasets of informational content by grouping the orders into a plurality of groupings, wherein each grouping corresponds to a unique input feature;
for each grouping, assigning a training relevance score to the informational content;
outputting a list of anticipated production needs based on selecting a plurality of input features.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein the orders are pizza orders.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the pizza orders comprise informational content taken at least one from the set of: foodstuff required, man hours required, location, date, and time.
18. The method of claim 17, where the data output is anticipated productive need for one or more input features.
</claims>
</document>
