<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L29/08,H04W4/029,H04W4/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
EL ESSAILI, ALI
PALAIOS, ALEXANDROS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66826964
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CLUSTERING OF USER ENTITIES IN A CELLULAR NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to a method for grouping a plurality of user entities connected to a cellular network into different clusters, the method comprising: - collecting, for each of the plurality of user entities, activity information comprising different activity parameters, each activity parameter describing an activity of the corresponding user entities in the cellular network, - generating, for each of the plurality of user entities, a user profile comprising the activity parameters for the corresponding user entity, - grouping the plurality of user entities into the different clusters based on a similarity of the activity parameters of the user profiles.
</abstract>

<claims>
1 . A method for grouping a plurality of user entities connected to a cellular network into different clusters, the method comprising:
- collecting, for each of the plurality of user entities, activity information comprising different activity parameters, each activity parameter describing an activity of the corresponding user entities in the cellular network,
- generating, for each of the plurality of user entities, a user profile comprising the activity parameters for the corresponding user entity,
- grouping the plurality of user entities into the different clusters based on a similarity of the activity parameters of the user profiles.
2. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the grouping comprises determining the number of clusters into which the plurality of clusters are grouped based on the user profiles of the plurality of user entities.
3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the grouping comprises clustering of the user entities into the different clusters.
4. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of user entities are grouped into the different clusters such that each user entity is grouped only into one of the clusters.
5. The method according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the plurality of user entities are grouped into the different clusters such that each user entities grouped into at least 2 different clusters with a cluster specific likelihood.
6. The method according to any of claims 2 to 5, wherein determining the numbers of clusters is stopped when the number of clusters does not change by more than a predefined threshold during the grouping of the plurality of user entities into the different clusters.
7. The method according to claim 5 and 6, wherein determining the number of clusters is continued or started again, when the cluster specific likelihood, for one of the user entities, is higher than a first threshold for 2 or more clusters, and when the number of user entities for which the cluster specific likelihood is higher than the first threshold for 2 or more clusters, is higher than a second threshold. 8. The method according to any of the preceding claims, further comprising the step of determining a number of active user entities in each of the clusters.
9. The method according to any of the preceding claims, further comprising generating a cluster specific user profile representing an average of the user profiles of all user entities grouped into the corresponding cluster, wherein the cluster specific user profile replaces the user profile of each user entity in the corresponding cluster.
10. The method according to any of the preceding claims, further comprising the step of controlling at least a part of the cellular network taking into account the grouping of the plurality of user entities into the different clusters.
1 1 . The method according to claim 8, 9 and 10, further comprising the step of predicting a data traffic in at least the part of the cellular network based on the cluster specific user profiles of the different clusters and based on the number of active user entities in each of the clusters.
12. The method according to claim 1 1 , wherein controlling comprises controlling an admission of new user entities into the cellular network based on the predicted data traffic.
13. The method according to claim 1 1 or 12, wherein controlling comprises scheduling at least some of the user entities in a radio access network of the cellular network taking into account the number of active devices in each of the clusters and the cluster specific user profiles.
14. The method according to any of claims 9 to 13, further comprising determining a mean data traffic per cluster based on the number of active mobile entities in the corresponding cluster and the cluster specific user profile of the corresponding cluster, wherein a future data traffic in the cellular network is predicted based on the mean data traffic per cluster.
15. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the grouping into the different clusters is carried for one radio access node of the cellular network.
16. The method according to claim 14, further determining the grouping into the different clusters for a plurality of the radio access nodes, wherein a controlling of at least part of the cellular network is carried out taking to account the clusters from the plurality of radio access nodes,, wherein preferably a new grouping of the plurality of user entities into the different clusters is carried out taking into account the clusters from the plurality of radio access nodes and information available at a core network part of the cellular network. 17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the new grouping into the different clusters is carried out at one node of the cellular network and is then distributed to other nodes of the cellular network.
18. The method according to claim 5 and 10, wherein for controlling at least part of the cellular network taking into account the grouping into the different clusters, mobile entities are only considered when the likelihood that they correspond to the corresponding cluster is higher than a threshold.
19. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the activity parameters comprise at least one of the following parameters:
- a data traffic pattern of the user entity,
- location information of the user entity,
- consumed radio resources of the user entity,
- visited radio access nodes visited in the cellular network by the user entity
- an assigned quality of service assigned to the user entity.
20. A network entity (100) configured to group a plurality of user entities connected to a cellular network into different clusters, comprising a memory (130) and at least one processing unit (120), the memory containing instructions executable by said at least one processing unit, wherein the network entity (100) is operative to:
- collect, for each of the plurality of user entities, activity information comprising different activity parameters, each activity parameter describing an activity of the corresponding user entities in the cellular network,
- generate, for each of the plurality of user entities, a user profile comprising the activity parameters for the corresponding user entity,
- group the plurality of user entities into the different clusters based on a similarity of the activity parameters of the user profiles.
21 . The network entity according to claim 20, further being operative, for grouping the plurality of users, to determine the number of clusters into which the plurality of clusters are grouped based on the user profiles of the plurality of user entities.
22. The network entity according to claim 20 or 21 , further being operative, for grouping the plurality of user entities, to cluster the user entities into the different clusters. 23. The network entity according to any of claims 20 to 22, further being operative to group the plurality of user entities into the different clusters such that each user entity is grouped only into one of the clusters.
24. The network entity according to any of claims 20 to 23, further being operative to group the plurality of user entities into the different clusters such that each user entities grouped into at least 2 different clusters with a cluster specific likelihood.
25. The network entity according to any of claims 21 to 24, further being operative to stop determining the numbers of clusters when the number of clusters does not change by more than a predefined threshold during the grouping of the plurality of user entities into the different clusters.
26. The network entity according to claim 24 and 25, further being operative to continue or start again the step of determining the number of clusters, when the cluster specific likelihood, for one of the user entities, is higher than a first threshold for 2 or more clusters, and when the number of user entities for which the cluster specific likelihood is higher than the first threshold for 2 or more clusters, is higher than a second threshold.
27. The network entity according to any of claims 20 to 26, further being operative to determine a number of active user entities in each of the clusters.
28. The network entity according to any of claims 20 to 27, further being operative to generate a cluster specific user profile representing an average of the user profiles of all user entities grouped into the corresponding cluster, and to replace the user profile of each user entity in the corresponding cluster by the cluster specific user profile.
29. The network entity according to any of claims 20 to 28, further being operative to control at least a part of the cellular network taking into account the grouping of the plurality of user entities into the different clusters.
30. The network entity according to claim 26, 27, and 28 further being operative to predict a data traffic in at least the part of the cellular network based on the cluster specific user profiles of the different clusters and based on the number of active user entities in each of the clusters.
31. The network entity according to claim 30, further being operative, for controlling at least a part of the cellular network, to control an admission of new user entities into the cellular network based on the predicted data traffic, wherein a new user entity is not admitted to the cellular network, if the predicted data traffic does not allow an admission.
32. The network entity according to claim 28 or 29, further being operative, for controlling at least a part of the cellular network, to schedule at least some of the user entities in a radio access network of the cellular network taking into account the number of active devices in each of the clusters and the cluster specific user profiles.
33. The network entity according to any of claims 27 to 30, further being operative to determine a mean data traffic per cluster based on the number of active mobile entities in the corresponding cluster and cluster specific user profile of the corresponding cluster, and to predict a future data traffic in the cellular network based on the mean data traffic per cluster.
34. The network entity according to any of claims 20 to 33, further being configured as a radio access node of the cellular network.
35. The network entity according to any of claims 20 to 34, further being operative to determine the grouping into the different clusters for a plurality of the radio access nodes, and to control at least part of the cellular network taking to account the clusters from the plurality of radio access nodes, and preferably to carry out a new grouping of the plurality of user entities into the different clusters taking into account the clusters from the plurality of radio access nodes and information available from a core network part of the cellular network.
36. The network entity according to claim 35, further being operative to distribute information about the new grouping to other nodes of the cellular network.
37. The network entity according to claim 24 and 29, further being operative, for controlling at least part of the cellular network taking into account the grouping into the different clusters, to only consider the mobile entities, when the likelihood that they correspond to the corresponding cluster is higher than a threshold.
38. A system grouping a plurality of user entities connected to a cellular network into different clusters, the system comprising a radio access node configured as network entity as mentioned in any of claims 20 to 36 and a further network entity operative to determine the grouping into the different clusters as mentioned in any of claims 20 to 26, for a plurality of radio access nodes, and to control at least part of the cellular network taking to account the clusters from the plurality of radio access nodes, and preferably to carry out a new grouping of the plurality of user entities into the different clusters taking into account the clusters from the plurality of radio access nodes and information available from a core network part of the cellular network. 39. The system according to claim 38, wherein the further network entity is configured to distribute information about the new grouping to other nodes of the cellular network, preferably a plurality of radio access nodes of the cellular network.
40. A computer program comprising program code to be executed by at least one processing unit (120, 220, 320) of a network entity (100), wherein execution of the program code causes the at least one processing unit to execute a method according to any of claims 1 to 19.
41. A carrier comprising the computer program of claim 40, wherein the carrier is one of an electronic signal, optical signal, radio signal, or computer readable storage medium.
</claims>
</document>
