<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
REYES, James
NAVEH, Barak
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70293154
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED VISUAL SUGGESTION, GENERATION, AND ASSESSMENT USING COMPUTER VISION DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
An online system may identify content with which a user has an interest. For example, the online system may determine that a user has an interest in the content based on interaction information indicating that the user interacted with the content. In a particular example, the online system may identify image concepts included in the content based on computer vision techniques that recognize the image concepts. The online system may model probabilities that image concepts will appeal to users. Based on the modeled probabilities, the online system may automatically recommend image concepts for inclusion in candidate images, automatically generate candidate images, or assess candidate images to determine a probability of user interaction with the assessed candidate images.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An online system, comprising:
a processor; and
a non-transitory computer-readable medium communicatively coupled to the processor and including instructions that, when executed by the processor, causes the processor to:
receive a request comprising an audience definition of an audience; identify a set of users based on the audience definition; identify one or more images interacted with by the set of users;
determine an image concept conveyed in the one or more images; generate an output based on the image concept; and
provide the output responsive to the request.
2. The online system of claim 1 , wherein the processor is further caused to: determine a first probability that the image concept was at least a partial reason that the one or more images were interacted with by at least some members of the audience, wherein the output is based on the first probability.
3. The online system of claim 2, wherein the processor is further caused to: determine at least a second image concept, and wherein generating the output comprises: determining a second probability that the second image concept was at least a partial reason that the one or more images were interacted with by at least some members of the audience; and providing a ranked listing of the image concept and the second image concept based on the first probability and the second probability.
4. The online system of claim 1 , claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the processor is further caused to:
generate an image concept model that correlates attributes of users with image concepts determined from images interacted with by the set of users;
apply one or more user attributes in the audience definition to the image concept model; and
obtain the image concept as an output of the image concept model; and/or further caused to:
receive a candidate image to be provided to the audience, the candidate image based on the image concept;
provide the candidate image to the audience;
determine a number of user interactions with the candidate image; and update the image concept model based on the number of user interactions.
5. The online system of claim 4, wherein the audience definition is received in association with a campaign, and wherein the processor is further caused to: monitor a result of the campaign; and update the image concept model based on the result.
6. The online system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the processor is further caused to:
obtain a plurality of images interacted with by users; and
for each of the plurality of images:
identify at least one image concept based on computer vision analysis; and
store, in an image concept store, the at least one image concept in association with the image, wherein the determined image concept is based on the image concept store; and/or further caused to:
identify a first location of a first image concept in a first image; identify a second location of a second image concept in the first image; and determine a location context based on the first location and the second location, wherein the generated output is based on the location context.
7. The online system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein to generate the output, the processor is further caused to: generate an image concept recommendation comprising an identification of the image concept to be included in an image provided to the audience; and/or further caused to:
identify a sample image that includes the image concept; and
include the sample image with the image concept recommendation.
8. The online system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein to generate the output, the processor is further caused to:
generate a candidate image based on the image concept; and/or wherein to generate the candidate image, the processor is further caused to:
identify an audience based on the audience definition, the audience to receive the candidate image; and
include the image concept in the candidate image based on a prediction that the image concept will appeal to the audience.
9. The online system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein to generate the output, the processor is further caused to:
receive a candidate image to be provided to the audience;
identify one or more image concepts from the candidate image; and determine an assessment that comprises a probability that the candidate image will be interacted with by the audience based on the one or more image concepts identified from the candidate image and the audience definition. 10. A method, comprising:
processing, by an online system, a plurality of images, wherein for each image, the processing comprises:
identifying one or more image concepts from the image based on computer vision analysis of the image;
storing, in an image store, the one or more image concepts in association with the image;
providing the image for interaction to a plurality of users of the online system;
determining a set of users, from among the plurality of users, that interacted with the image; and
storing, in an action log, an indication of the interaction; receiving, by the online system, a request comprising an audience definition; identifying, by the online system, a set of users based on the audience definition;
identifying, by the online system, one or more images interacted with by the set of users based on the action log;
determining, by the online system, an image concept based on the plurality of images; and
providing, by the online system, an output based on the image concept. 1 1. The method of claim 10, wherein generating the output comprises:
generating an image concept recommendation comprising an identification of the image concept to be included in an image provided to the audience; and/or further comprising:
identifying a sample image that includes the image concept; and
including the sample image with the image concept recommendation.
12. The method of claim 10 or claim 1 1 , wherein generating the output comprises: generating a candidate image based on the image concept.
13. The method of claim 10, claim 1 1 , or claim 12, wherein generating the output comprises:
receiving a candidate image to be provided to the audience;
identifying one or more image concepts from the candidate image; and determining an assessment that comprises a probability that the candidate image will be interacted with by the audience based on the one or more image concepts identified from the candidate image and the audience definition.
14. An online system, comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable medium communicatively coupled to the processor and including instructions that, when executed by the processor, causes the processor to:
identify interactions with a plurality images by a user, wherein a plurality of attributes is known about the user; identify a plurality of image concepts from the plurality of images; determine a correlation between an attribute of the user with one or more of the plurality of image concepts; and generate an image concept model based on the determined correlation.
15. The online system of claim 14, wherein the processor is further caused to: generate, via the image concept model, a recommendation to use an image concept in a candidate image; monitor user interactions with the candidate image; and update the image concept model based on the monitored user interactions.
</claims>
</document>
