<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60Q1/26,G06F3/01,G06F3/03
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUALCOMM
</assignee>

<inventors>
KANDHADAI, ANANTHAPADMANABHAN ARASANIPALAI
BANERJEE, DEBDEEP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73047439
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VIRTUAL MODELS FOR COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES AND EXTERNAL OBSERVERS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for interactions between an autonomous vehicle and one or more external observers include virtual models of drivers the autonomous vehicle. The virtual models may be generated by the autonomous vehicle and displayed to one or more external observers, and in some cases using devices worn by the external observers. The virtual models may facilitate interactions between the external observers and the autonomous vehicle using gestures or other visual cues. The virtual models may be encrypted with characteristics of an external observer, such as the external observer's face image, iris, or other representative features. Multiple virtual models for multiple external observers may be simultaneously used for multiple communications while preventing interference due to possible overlap of the multiple virtual models.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An apparatus for communicating between one or more vehicles and one or more external observers, comprising:
a memory configured to store data; and
a processor configured to:
detect a first external observer for communicating with a vehicle;
obtain, for the vehicle, a first virtual model for communicating with the first external observer;
encrypt, based on one or more characteristics of the first external observer, the first virtual model to generate an encrypted first virtual model; and
communicate with the first external observer using the encrypted first virtual model.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to:
extract one or more image features from one or more images comprising at least a portion of the first external observer; and
detect, based on the one or more image features, that the first external observer is attempting to communicate with the vehicle.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to:
identify an input associated with the first external observer; and
detect, based on the input, that the first external observer is attempting to communicate with the vehicle.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the input includes one or more gestures.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein detecting the first external observer comprises: tracking a gaze of the first external observer;
determining a field of view of the first external observer based on tracking the gaze; and
detecting that the field of view includes at least a portion of the vehicle.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein communicating with the first external observer using the encrypted first virtual model comprises:
decrypting frames of the encrypted first virtual model based on the one or more characteristics of the first external observer; and
projecting the decrypted frames of first virtual model towards the first external observer.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein projecting the decrypted frames of the first virtual model towards the first external observer comprises:
detecting a field of view of the first external observer; and
projecting a foveated rendering of the decrypted frames of the first virtual model to the first external observer based on the field of view.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to:
enable a first set of frames of the encrypted first virtual model to be visible to the first external observer; and
prevent the first set of frames from being visible to one or more other external observers.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein enabling the first set of frames to be visible comprises:
displaying the first set of frames on a glass surface with a variable refractive index; and
modifying the refractive index of the glass surface to selectively allow the first set of frames to pass through the glass surface in a field of view of the first external observer.
10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein preventing the first set of frames from being visible comprises:
displaying the first set of frames on a glass surface with a variable refractive index; and
modifying the refractive index to selectively block the first set of frames from passing through the glass surface in a field of view of the one or more other external observers.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to:
detect a second external observer for communicating with the vehicle;
obtain, for the vehicle, a second virtual model for communicating with the second external observer;
encrypt, based on one or more characteristics of the second external observer, the second virtual model to generate an encrypted second virtual model; and
communicate with the second external observer using the encrypted second virtual model simultaneously with communicating with the first external observer using the encrypted first virtual model.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to:
project a first set of frames of the encrypted first virtual model towards the first external observer;
project a second set of frames of the encrypted second virtual model towards the second external observer; and
prevent the first set of frames from overlapping the second set of frames.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein preventing the first set of frames from overlapping the second set of frames comprises:
displaying the first set of frames and the second set of frames on a glass surface with a variable refractive index;
modifying a refractive index of a first portion of the glass surface to selectively allow the first set of frames to pass through the first portion of the glass surface in a field of view of the first external observer while blocking the second set of frames from passing through the first portion of the glass surface in the field of view of the first external observer; and
modifying a refractive index of a second portion of the glass surface to selectively allow the second set of frames to pass through the second portion of the glass surface in a field of view of the second external observer while blocking the first set of frames from passing through the second portion of the glass surface in the field of view of the second external observer.
14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus includes the vehicle.
15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus includes a computing device of the vehicle.
16. A method of communication between one or more vehicles and one or more external observers, the method comprising:
detecting a first external observer for communicating with a vehicle;
obtaining, for the vehicle, a first virtual model for communicating with the first external observer;
encrypting, based on one or more characteristics of the first external observer, the first virtual model to generate an encrypted first virtual model; and
communicating with the first external observer using the encrypted first virtual model.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
extracting one or more image features from one or more images comprising at least a portion of the first external observer; and
detecting, based on the one or more image features, that the first external observer is attempting to communicate with the vehicle.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
identifying an input associated with the first external observer; and
detecting, based on the input, that the first external observer is attempting to communicate with the vehicle.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the input includes one or more gestures.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein detecting the first external observer comprises: tracking a gaze of the first external observer;
determining a field of view of the first external observer based on tracking the gaze; and
detecting that the field of view includes at least a portion of the vehicle.
21. The method of claim 16, wherein communicating with the first external observer using the encrypted first virtual model comprises: decrypting frames of the encrypted first virtual model based on the one or more characteristics of the first external observer; and
projecting the decrypted frames of first virtual model towards the first external observer.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein projecting the decrypted frames of the first virtual model towards the first external observer comprises:
detecting a field of view of the first external observer; and
projecting a foveated rendering of the decrypted frames of the first virtual model to the first external observer based on the field of view.
23. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
enabling a first set of frames of the encrypted first virtual model to be visible to the first external observer; and
preventing the first set of frames from being visible to one or more other external observers.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein enabling the first set of frames to be visible comprises:
displaying the first set of frames on a glass surface with a variable refractive index; and
modifying the refractive index of the glass surface to selectively allow the first set of frames to pass through the glass surface in a field of view of the first external observer.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein preventing the first set of frames from being visible comprises:
displaying the first set of frames on a glass surface with a variable refractive index; and
modifying the refractive index to selectively block the first set of frames from passing through the glass surface in a field of view of the one or more other external observers.
26. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
detecting a second external observer for communicating with the vehicle; obtaining, for the vehicle, a second virtual model for communicating with the second external observer;
encrypting, based on one or more characteristics of the second external observer, the second virtual model to generate an encrypted second virtual model; and
communicating with the second external observer using the encrypted second virtual model simultaneously with communicating with the first external observer using the encrypted first virtual model.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising:
projecting a first set of frames of the encrypted first virtual model towards the first external observer;
projecting a second set of frames of the encrypted second virtual model towards the second external observer; and
preventing the first set of frames from overlapping the second set of frames.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein preventing the first set of frames from overlapping the second set of frames comprises:
displaying the first set of frames and the second set of frames on a glass surface with a variable refractive index;
modifying a refractive index of a first portion of the glass surface to selectively allow the first set of frames to pass through the first portion of the glass surface in a field of view of the first external observer while blocking the second set of frames from passing through the first portion of the glass surface in the field of view of the first external observer; and
modifying a refractive index of a second portion of the glass surface to selectively allow the second set of frames to pass through the second portion of the glass surface in a field of view of the second external observer while blocking the first set of frames from passing through the second portion of the glass surface in the field of view of the second external observer.
29. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: detect a first external observer for communicating with a vehicle; obtain, for the vehicle, a first virtual model for communicating with the first external observer;
encrypt, based on one or more characteristics of the first external observer, the first virtual model to generate an encrypted first virtual model; and
communicate with the first external observer using the encrypted first virtual model.
30. An apparatus for communicating between one or more vehicles and one or more external observers, comprising:
means for detecting a first external observer for communicating with a vehicle; means for obtaining, for the vehicle, a first virtual model for communicating with the first external observer;
means for encrypting, based on one or more characteristics of the first external observer, the first virtual model to generate an encrypted first virtual model; and
means for communicating with the first external observer using the encrypted first virtual model.
</claims>
</document>
