<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/68
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUNDACIO HOSPITAL UNIVERSITARI VALL D'HEBRON - INSTITUT DE RECERCA
</assignee>

<inventors>
MONTANER VILLALONGA, JOAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66625897
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR SELECTING A PATIENT FOR A REPERFUSION THERAPY
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to a method for selecting a patient suffering stroke for a reperfusion therapy based on determining the level of retinol binding protein-4 (RBP4) and N-terminal fragment of B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) in an isolated sample of said patient. The invention also relates to a method of differentiating ischemic stroke from haemorrhagic stroke and to kits comprising reagents to carry out the methods.
</abstract>

<claims>
1 An in vitro method for selecting a patient suffering stroke for a reperfusion therapy, comprising determining the level of retinol binding protein-4 (RBP4) and of N-terminal fragment of B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) in an isolated sample of said patient.
2 - The in vitro method according to claim 1 , further comprising determining the level of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP).
3.- The in vitro method according to any one of claims 1-2, further comprising the step of comparing the levels of RBP4, NT-proBNP and if determined of GFAP, with a
corresponding reference value or reference interval for each protein, said reference value or interval selected from a value or interval of values from a subject suffering from ischemic stroke, and wherein the subject is classified as a candidate for a reperfusion therapy when at least the level of RBP4 and of NT-proBNP are both within the value or interval of values from a subject suffering from ischemic stroke.
4.- The in vitro method according to any one of claims 1-2, further comprising the step of comparing the levels of RBP4, NT-proBNP and if determined of GFAP, with a
corresponding reference cut-off value for each protein, wherein:
- if only the levels of RBP4 and NT-proBNP are determined, a level of RBP4 and of NTproBNP simultaneously equal or higher than corresponding reference cut-off values for each of the proteins, ReflRBP4 and Ref 1 NTGOBNR, said cut-off values discriminating between ischemic stroke patients and intracerebral haemorrhage patients, is indicative that the patient is a candidate for a reperfusion therapy; or
- if the levels of RBP4, NT-proBNP and additional GFAP are determined, the patient is selected as a candidate for a reperfusion therapy if in a first step the level of GFAP is equal or lower than a reference cut-off value RefcFAp; and in a second step the level of RBP4 and of NT-proBNP are simultaneously equal or higher than corresponding references cut-off values Ref2RBP4 and Ref2NT-ProBNP, said cut-off values discriminating between ischemic stroke patients and intracerebral haemorrhage patients.
5.- The in vitro method according to any one of claims 1-4, wherein if the subject is classified as candidate for a reperfusion therapy, it is also classified as having a prognosis defined by a dependency degree greater than 2 according to modified ranking score (mRS), and determined within 1-5 months after stroke onset; and/or as having a prognosis defined by a three-month after onset mortality rate comprised from 25%-30%.
6. The in vitro method according to any one of claims 1-5, wherein if the subject is classified as candidate for a reperfusion therapy, it is also diagnosed of suffering from large vessel occlusion.
7.- The in vitro method according to any one of claims 1-6, wherein the reperfusion therapy is selected from the group consisting of a therapy with an antithrombotic agent, thrombectomy and a combination thereof.
8.- The in vitro method according to claim 7, wherein the antithrombotic agent is a thrombolytic agent.
9.- The method according to claim 8 wherein the thrombolytic agent is a plasminogen activator.
10.- The method according to claim 9, wherein the plasminogen activator is tissue plasminogen activator.
11.- The method according to claim 10, wherein the thrombolytic agent is a recombinant tissue plasminogen activator selected from the group consisting of alteplase, reteplase, and tenecteplase, and combinations thereof.
12. -The method according to any of claims 1 - 11 , wherein the sample is a bio fluid.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the bio fluid is plasma or serum.
14.- The method according to any of claims 1-13, wherein the determining the level of RBP4 and of NT-proBNP, and if determined of GFAP, is carried out within the two first hours after the stroke onset.
15.- An in vitro method for differentiating ischemic stroke from haemorrhagic stroke in a patient, comprising determining the level of RBP4 and NT-proBPN in an isolated sample of said patient.
16.- The in vitro method according to claim 15, further comprising determining the level of GFAP.
17.- The in vitro method according to any one of claims 15-16, further comprising the step of comparing the levels of RBP4, NT-proBNP and if determined of GFAP, with a corresponding reference value, wherein: said reference value or interval is selected from a value or interval of values from a subject suffering from ischemic stroke and/or from a subject suffering from hemorrhagic stroke, and wherein the subject is classified as ischemic stroke when at least the level of RBP4 and of NT-proBNP are both within the value or interval of values from a subject suffering from ischemic stroke, or as hemorrhagic stroke when at least one of the levels of RBP4 and of NT-proBNP match within the value or interval of values from a subject suffering from hemorrhagic stroke; or alternatively comparing the levels of RBP4, NT-proBNP and if determined of GFAP, with a corresponding reference cut-off value for each protein, wherein: (a) if only the levels of RBP4 and NT-proBNP are determined, a level of RBP4 and of NTproBNP simultaneously equal or higher than corresponding reference cut-off values for each of the proteins, ReflRBP4 and ReflNT-proBNP, said cut-off values discriminating between ischemic stroke patients and intracerebral haemorrhage patients, is indicative that the patient is suffering ischemic stroke; or (b) if the levels of RBP4, NT-proBNP and additional GFAP are determined, the patient is classified as suffering ischemic stroke if in a first step the level of GFAP is equal or lower than a reference cut-off value RefcFAp; and in a second step the level of RBP4 and of NT-proBNP are simultaneously equal or higher than corresponding references cut-off values Ref2RBP4 and Ref2NTroBNP, said cut-off values discriminating between ischemic stroke patients and intracerebral haemorrhage patients.
18.- The in vitro method according to any one of claims 15- 17, wherein if the subject is classified as an ischemic stroke, it is also classified as having a prognosis defined by a dependency degree greater than 2 according to modified ranking score (mRS), and determined within 1-5 months after stroke onset; and/or as having a prognosis defined by a three-month after onset mortality rate comprised from 25%-30%.
19. The in vitro method according to any one of claims 15-18, wherein if the subject is classified as an ischemic stroke, it is also diagnosed of suffering from large vessel occlusion.
20.- The in vitro method according to any one of claims 15-19, wherein the determining of the level of RBP4 and of NT-proBNP, and if determined of GFAP, is carried out within the two first hours after the stroke onset.
21.- The in vitro method for selecting a patient suffering stroke for a reperfusion therapy according to any one of claims 1-14, or the in vitro method for differentiating ischemic stroke from haemorrhagic stroke in a patient according to any of claims 15-20, wherein the method further comprises determining one or more clinical parameters.
22.- The in vitro method according to claim 21 , wherein the clinical parameters are selected from the group consisting of blood pressure, including systolic blood pressure and/or diastolic blood pressure, glycemia, age, scores from systematic assessment tools of strokerelated neurologic deficits, gender, and combinations thereof.
23.- An in vitro method for the diagnosis of large vessel occlusion (LVO), comprising determining the level of RBP4 and of NT-proBNP in an isolated sample of a subject.
24.- The in vitro method for the diagnosis of large vessel occlusion according to claim 23, further comprising determining the level of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP).
25.- The in vitro method according to any one of claims 23-24, further comprising the step of comparing the levels of RBP4, NT-proBNP and if determined of GFAP, with a corresponding reference value, wherein said reference value or interval is selected from a value or interval of values from a subject suffering from LVO, and wherein the subject is diagnosed as LVO when at least the level of one of RBP4, NT-proBNP and GFAP are both within the value or interval of values from a subject suffering from LVO.
26.- The in vitro method according to any one of claims 23-25, further comprising determining one or more clinical parameters.
27.- The in vitro method according to claim 26, wherein the clinical parameters are selected from the group consisting of blood pressure, including systolic blood pressure and/or diastolic blood pressure, glycemia, levels of blood d-dimer, age, scores from systematic assessment tools of stroke-related neurologic deficits, gender, and
combinations thereof.
28.- The in vitro method according to any one of claims 23-27, comprising determining the level of RBP4, NT-proBNP and GFAP, glycemia, d-dimer in the isolated sample and further diastolic blood pressure and baseline score from systematic assessment tools of strokerelated neurologic deficits.
29.- The in vitro method according to any one of claims 23-28, wherein the determining of the level of RBP4 and of NT-proBNP, and if determined of GFAP, is carried out within the two first hours after the stroke onset.
30.- An in vitro method for the prognosis of a patient suffering ischemic stroke, comprising determining the level of retinol binding protein-4 (RBP4) and N-terminal fragment of Btype natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) in an isolated sample of said patient.
31.- The in vitro method for the prognosis according to claim 30, wherein the levels of at least RBP4 or the two proteins are compared with a reference value, wherein said reference value is selected from a value or range of values indicating or confirming that the subject is suffering ischemic stroke.
32.- The in vitro method for the prognosis according to any one of claims 30-31 , wherein the prognosis is defined by a dependency degree greater than 2 according to modified ranking score (mRS), and determined within 1-5 months after stroke onset; and/or as having a prognosis defined by a three-month after onset mortality rate comprised from 25%-30%.
33. An in vitro method for differentiating ischemic stroke from haemorrhagic stroke in a patient, or for selecting a patient suffering stroke for a reperfusion therapy, comprising determining the level of NT-proBNP and the level of GFAP in an isolated sample of the patient, optionally in combination with the determination of a clinical parameter selected from the group consisting of blood pressure, including systolic blood pressure and/or diastolic blood pressure, glycemia, age, scores obtained from systematic assessment tools of stroke-related neurologic deficit, gender, and combinations thereof.
34.- A kit comprising reagent means for detecting the level of RBP4 and NT-proBNP, and optionally reagent means for detecting the level of GFAP.
</claims>
</document>
