<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/35,G06N3/02,G06Q40/00,G06Q40/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUIT
</assignee>

<inventors>
LESNER, CHRISTOPHER
RAN, ALEXANDER S.
RUKONIC, MARKO
WANG WEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883547
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR USER DATA DRIVEN FINANCIAL TRANSACTION DESCRIPTION DICTIONARY CONSTRUCTION
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system identify characteristics of financial transaction description strings. The method and system trains a dictionary generation model with a machine learning process to classify financial transaction description strings. The dictionary generation model generates a dictionary that indicates key substrings from the financial transaction description strings that were most predictive in classifying the financial transaction description strings.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computing system implemented method for identifying predictive
characteristics of financial transaction description strings, the method comprising:
receiving financial transaction data related to a plurality of financial transactions of users of a data management system and including, for each financial transaction, a respective financial transaction description string;
generating, from the financial transaction data, training set data including a plurality of the financial transaction description strings labeled according to a classification;
training, with a machine learning process utilizing the training set data, a dictionary generation model to accurately classify the financial transaction descriptions strings;
identifying, with the dictionary generation model, key substrings from the transaction description strings that are predictive in classifying the financial transaction description strings based on the machine learning process;
generating dictionary data indicating the key substrings of the financial transaction description strings that were predictive in classifying the financial transaction description strings;
receiving new financial transaction data corresponding to a new financial transaction of a user and including a new financial transaction description string;
comparing the new financial transaction description string to the dictionary data; and categorizing the new financial transaction based on the comparison between the new financial transaction description string and the dictionary data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein comparing the new financial transaction description string to the dictionary data includes identifying one or more key substrings from the dictionary data that match one or more portions of the new financial transaction description string.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising categorizing the new financial transaction based on the one or more key substrings from the dictionary data that match the one or more portions of the new financial transaction description string.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein generating the dictionary data includes identifying, for each key substring, a respective score indicating the predictive power of the key substring.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising categorizing the new financial transaction based on one or more matching key substrings with a highest score.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning process is a supervised machine learning process.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the dictionary generation model includes a recurrent neural network.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the dictionary generation model includes an attention based recurrent neural network.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the data management system includes one or more of:
a bookkeeping system;
a tax return preparation system; and
a budgeting system.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the training set data is classified according to a merchant involved in the financial transaction.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein categorizing the new financial transaction includes identifying a merchant involved in the new financial transaction based on the comparison with the dictionary data. 12 A computing system implemented method for identifying predictive characteristics of financial transaction description strings, the method comprising:
receiving financial transaction data related to a plurality of financial transactions of users of a data management system and including, for each financial transaction, a respective financial transaction description string;
generating, from the financial transaction data, training set data including a plurality of the financial transaction description strings labeled according to a classification;
training, with a machine learning process utilizing the training set data, a dictionary generation model to accurately classify the financial transaction descriptions strings; and
generating, with the dictionary generation model, dictionary data indicating key substrings from the financial transaction description strings that most strongly predict classification.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising:
receiving new financial transaction data corresponding to a new financial transaction of a user and including a new financial transaction description string;
comparing the new financial transaction description string to the dictionary data; and categorizing the new financial transaction based on the comparison between the new financial transaction description string and the dictionary data.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein comparing the new financial transaction description string to the dictionary data includes identifying one or more key substrings from the dictionary data that match one or more portions of the new financial transaction description string.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising categorizing the new financial transaction based on the one or more key substring from the dictionary data that match the one or more portions of the new financial transaction description string.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein generating the dictionary data includes identifying, for each key substring, a respective score indicating the predictive power of the key substring.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising categorizing the new financial transaction based on one or more matching key substrings with a highest score.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the machine learning process is a supervised machine learning process.
19. A system for identifying predictive characteristics of financial transaction description strings, the system comprising:
at least one processor; and
at least one memory coupled to the at least one processor, the at least one memory having stored therein instructions which, when executed by any set of the one or more processors, perform a process including:
receiving financial transaction data related to a plurality of financial transactions of users of a data management system and including, for each financial transaction, a respective financial transaction description string;
generating, from the financial transaction data, training set data including a plurality of the financial transaction description strings labeled according to a classification;
training, with a machine learning process utilizing the training set data, a dictionary generation model to accurately classify the financial transaction descriptions strings;
identifying, with the dictionary generation model, key substrings from the transaction description strings that are predictive in classifying the financial transaction description strings based on the machine learning process;
generating dictionary data indicating the key substrings of the financial transaction description strings that were predictive in classifying the financial transaction description strings;
receiving new financial transaction data corresponding to a new financial transaction of a user and including a new financial transaction description string;
comparing the new financial transaction description string to the dictionary data; and categorizing the new financial transaction based on the comparison between the new financial transaction description string and the dictionary data.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein comparing the new financial transaction description string to the dictionary data includes identifying one or more key substrings from the dictionary data that match one or more portions of the new financial transaction description string.
21. The system of claim 20, further comprising categorizing the new financial transaction based on the one or more key substrings from the dictionary data that match the one or more portions of the new financial transaction description string.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein generating the dictionary data includes identifying, for each key substring, a respective score indicating the predictive power of the key substring.
23. The system of claim 22, further comprising categorizing the new financial transaction based on one or more matching key substrings with a highest score.
24. The system of claim 19, wherein identifying the key substrings includes analyzing, for each financial transaction description string, a predictive power of each of a plurality of n-grams from the financial transaction description string.
25. The system of claim 24, wherein some of the n-grams from a financial transaction description string overlap each other.
26. A computing system implemented method for identifying predictive
characteristics of financial transaction description strings, the method comprising:
receiving financial transaction data related to a plurality of financial transactions of users of a data management system and including, for each financial transaction, a respective financial transaction description string;
generating, from the financial transaction data, a plurality of training sets each including a plurality of the financial transaction description strings labeled according to a classification; training, with a machine learning process utilizing the training set data, a dictionary generation model to accurately classify the financial transaction descriptions strings;
identifying, with the dictionary generation model, key substrings from the transaction description strings that are predictive in classifying the financial transaction description strings based on the machine learning process; and
generating, for each training set, a respective dictionary indicating the key substrings of the financial transaction description strings that were predictive in classifying the financial transaction description strings.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising receiving new financial transaction data corresponding to a new financial transaction of a user and including a new financial transaction description string;
comparing the new financial transaction description string to a first dictionary;
if satisfactory matching key substrings are found in the first dictionary categorizing the new financial transaction based on the comparison between the new financial transaction description string and the first dictionary data;
if satisfactory key substrings are not found in the first dictionary, comparing the new financial transaction description string to a second dictionary; and
if satisfactory matching key substrings are found in the second dictionary categorizing the new financial transaction based on the comparison between the new financial transaction description string and the second dictionary data.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the first dictionary is generated from a training set that includes a narrower range of financial transactions that a training from which the second dictionary is generated.
29. The method of claim 26, wherein the training sets include one or more of:
a training set based on financial transactions from a selected country;
a training set based on financial transactions from a selected region of a selected country; a training set based on financial transactions from a selected city; and
a training set based on financial transaction from a selected user of the data management system.
30. The method of claim 26, wherein the financial transaction description strings from the training set data have been labeled by users of the data management system.
31. The method of claim 26, wherein the dictionary generation model generates the dictionary data based on one or more of:
a logistic regression model;
a naive Bayes classifier algorithm;
a support vector machines algorithm;
a decision trees algorithms; a boosted trees algorithms;
a random forest algorithm;
a latent Dirichelt allocation algorithm; a neural networks algorithm; and a nearest neighbor algorithm.
</claims>
</document>
