<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B7/024,H04L1/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
MONDAL, BISHWARUP
CHATTERJEE, DEBDEEP
SENGUPTA, AVIK
DAVYDOV, ALEXEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70802943
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR UE PROCESSING TIME RELAXATION FOR MULTI-TRP TRANSMISSION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, devices, and techniques for adjusting a user equipment (UE) processing time parameter in a wireless communication system that include transmission and reception points (TRPs) are described. A described technique performed by UE includes receiving a first physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) from a first TRP corresponding to a first scheduling physical downlink control channel (PDCCH) and a second PDSCH from a second TRP corresponding to a second scheduling PDCCH. The technique further includes transmitting a first hybrid automatic repeat request acknowledgement (HARQ-ACK) message and a second HARQ-ACK message based on the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH in accordance with a first processing time parameter and a second processing time parameter, respectively. The first processing time parameter can be based on a PDSCH mapping type, a processing capability of the UE, and one or more timing characteristics of the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method comprising:
receiving, by a user equipment (UE) in a slot, a first physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) from a first transmission and reception point (TRP) corresponding to a first scheduling physical downlink control channel (PDCCH) and a second PDSCH from a second TRP corresponding to a second scheduling PDCCH, wherein the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH overlap at least partially in time; and
transmitting a first hybrid automatic repeat request acknowledgement (HARQACK) message and a second HARQ-ACK message based on the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH in accordance with a first processing time parameter and a second processing time parameter, respectively,
wherein the first processing time parameter is based on a PDSCH mapping type, a processing capability of the UE, and one or more timing characteristics of the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first PDSCH ends earlier in time than the second PDSCH in the slot, and wherein the first processing time parameter is based on a relative difference in durations of the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first processing time parameter is based on the number of overlapping symbols of the first scheduling PDCCH and the first PDSCH.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first processing time parameter is based on the number of overlapping symbols of the first scheduling PDCCH and the first PDSCH, and wherein the first processing time parameter is based on the number of overlapping symbols of the second scheduling PDCCH and the second PDSCH.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH are fully overlapped.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first processing time parameter is based on a number of symbols allocated to the first PDSCH.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first processing time parameter is adjusted based on whether at least one of the first PDSCH or the second PDSCH is longer than seven symbols.
8. A user equipment (UE) comprising:
a transceiver; and
a processor coupled with the transceiver,
wherein the processor is configured to receive, via the transceiver, a first physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) from a first transmission and reception point (TRP) corresponding to a first scheduling physical downlink control channel (PDCCH) and a second PDSCH from a second TRP corresponding to a second scheduling PDCCH, wherein the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH overlap at least partially in time in a slot,
wherein the processor is configured to transmit, via the transceiver, a first hybrid automatic repeat request acknowledgement (HARQ-ACK) message and a second HARQACK message based on the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH in accordance with a first processing time parameter and a second processing time parameter, respectively, wherein the first processing time parameter is based on a PDSCH mapping type, a processing capability of the UE, and one or more timing characteristics of the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH.
9. The UE of claim 8, wherein the first PDSCH ends earlier in time than the second PDSCH in the slot, and wherein the first processing time parameter is based on a relative difference in durations of the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH.
10. The UE of claim 8, wherein the first processing time parameter is based on the number of overlapping symbols of the first scheduling PDCCH and the first PDSCH.
11. The UE of claim 8, wherein the first processing time parameter is based on the number of overlapping symbols of the first scheduling PDCCH and the first PDSCH, and wherein the first processing time parameter is based on the number of overlapping symbols of the second scheduling PDCCH and the second PDSCH.
12. The UE of claim 11, wherein the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH are fully overlapped.
13. The UE of claim 8, wherein the first processing time parameter is based on a number of symbols allocated to the first PDSCH.
14. The UE of claim 8, wherein the first processing time parameter is adjusted based on whether at least one of the first PDSCH or the second PDSCH is longer than seven symbols.
15. A system comprising:
a first base station comprising a first transmission and reception point (TRP); and a second base station comprising a second TRP, wherein the first and second base stations are configured to transmit, in a slot to a user equipment (UE), a first scheduling physical downlink control channel (PDCCH) and a second scheduling PDCCH,
wherein the first and second base stations are configured to transmit, in the slot to the UE, a first physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) from the first TRP corresponding to the first scheduling PDCCH and a second PDSCH from the second TRP corresponding to the second scheduling PDCCH, wherein the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH overlap at least partially in time,
wherein the first and second base stations are configured to receive, from the UE, a first hybrid automatic repeat request acknowledgement (HARQ-ACK) message and a second HARQ-ACK message based on the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH in accordance with a first processing time parameter and a second processing time parameter, respectively, and
wherein the first processing time parameter is based on a PDSCH mapping type, a processing capability of the UE, and one or more timing characteristics of the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the first PDSCH ends earlier in time than the second PDSCH in the slot, and wherein the first processing time parameter is based on a relative difference in durations of the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the first processing time parameter is based on the number of overlapping symbols of the first scheduling PDCCH and the first PDSCH.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the first processing time parameter is based on the number of overlapping symbols of the first scheduling PDCCH and the first PDSCH, and wherein the first processing time parameter is based on the number of overlapping symbols of the second scheduling PDCCH and the second PDSCH.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the first PDSCH and the second PDSCH are fully overlapped.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the first processing time parameter is based on a number of symbols allocated to the first PDSCH.
21. The system of claim 15, wherein the first processing time parameter is adjusted based on whether at least one of the first PDSCH or the second PDSCH is longer than seven symbols.
</claims>
</document>
