<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/165
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SF MOTORS
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG FAN
TANG YIFAN
GUO, RUI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72424862
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SMOOTH TRANSITION BETWEEN ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL AND CRUISE CONTROL USING VIRTUAL VEHICLE
</title>

<abstract>
An autonomous vehicle with adaptable cruise control in which a virtual vehicle object is generated to pace the autonomous vehicle for a smooth acceleration when transitioning between an ACC mode and a CC mode. An acceleration profile sets a virtual vehicle object acceleration as a function of a speed difference between the current road speed limit and the current autonomous vehicle speed, and the current autonomous vehicle acceleration. The perception data may be generated for the virtual vehicle object to simulate the existence of the virtual vehicle object on the road traveled by the autonomous vehicle. The generated perception data and acceleration data are provided to an ACC module to control the acceleration of the autonomous vehicle. The acceleration profile of the virtual vehicle object is tunable.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for automatically accelerating an autonomous vehicle, comprising:
a data processing system comprising one or more processors, memory, a planning module, and a control module, the data processing system to:
detecting that a first vehicle in a first lane of a road is traveling at a speed below a desired speed for the first vehicle;
detecting no real objects in front of the first vehicle in the first lane;
generating a virtual object having a position in front of the first vehicle in the first lane, the virtual object accelerating in the first lane at a first acceleration rate; and
accelerating the first vehicle at a second acceleration rate based at least in part on the position of the virtual position of the first virtual object as the virtual object accelerates in the first lane.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the acceleration of the virtual object is tunable.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the acceleration is tunable based on user input, user driving data, or other data.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the acceleration is tunable based on the acceleration of the first vehicle, the speed difference between the first vehicle current speed and the desired speed,
5. The system of claim 1, wherein accelerating the first vehicle includes:
providing perception data for the generated virtual object to an adaptive cruise control system, the perception data including location and acceleration data; and
initiating control of the first vehicle by the adaptive cruise control system to accelerate towards the desired speed while following the virtual object.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein accelerating includes: generating an acceleration trajectory for the first vehicle based on the acceleration of the virtual vehicle;
generating commands to accelerate the first vehicle based on the acceleration trajectory; and
accelerating the first vehicle based on the generated commands.
7. The system of claim 1, further comprising terminating the virtual vehicle object in response to detecting an in-path vehicle in front of the first vehicle in the first lane.
8. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium having embodied thereon a program, the program being executable by a processor to perform a method for automatically accelerating an autonomous vehicle, the method comprising:
detecting that a first vehicle in a first lane of a road is traveling at a speed below a desired speed for the first vehicle;
detecting no real objects in front of the first vehicle in the first lane;
generating a virtual object having a position in front of the first vehicle in the first lane, the virtual object accelerating in the first lane at a first acceleration rate; and
accelerating the first vehicle at a second acceleration rate based at least in part on the position of the virtual position of the first virtual object as the virtual object accelerates in the first lane.
9. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the acceleration of the virtual object is tunable.
10. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the acceleration is tunable based on user input, user driving data, or other data.
11. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the acceleration is tunable based on the acceleration of the first vehicle, the speed difference between the first vehicle current speed and the desired speed,
12. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein accelerating the first vehicle includes:
providing perception data for the generated virtual object to an adaptive cruise control system, the perception data including location and acceleration data; and
initiating control of the first vehicle by the adaptive cruise control system to accelerate towards the desired speed while following the virtual object.
13. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein accelerating includes:
generating an acceleration trajectory for the first vehicle based on the acceleration of the virtual vehicle;
generating commands to accelerate the first vehicle based on the acceleration trajectory; and
accelerating the first vehicle based on the generated commands.
14. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, further comprising terminating the virtual vehicle object in response to detecting an in-path vehicle in front of the first vehicle in the first lane.
15. A method for automatically accelerating an autonomous vehicle, comprising:
detecting, by a data processing system, that a first vehicle in a first lane of a road is traveling at a speed below a desired speed for the first vehicle;
detecting, a data processing system, no real objects in front of the first vehicle in the first lane; generating, a data processing system, a virtual object having a position in front of the first vehicle in the first lane, the virtual object accelerating in the first lane at a first acceleration rate; and
accelerating the first vehicle at a second acceleration rate based at least in part on the position of the virtual position of the first virtual object as the virtual object accelerates in the first lane.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the acceleration of the virtual object is tunable.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the acceleration is tunable based on user input, user driving data, or other data.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the acceleration is tunable based on the acceleration of the first vehicle, the speed difference between the first vehicle current speed and the desired speed,
19. The method of claim 15, wherein accelerating the first vehicle includes:
providing perception data for the generated virtual object to an adaptive cruise control system, the perception data including location and acceleration data; and
initiating control of the first vehicle by the adaptive cruise control system to accelerate towards the desired speed while following the virtual object.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein accelerating includes:
generating an acceleration trajectory for the first vehicle based on the acceleration of the virtual vehicle;
generating commands to accelerate the first vehicle based on the acceleration trajectory; and
accelerating the first vehicle based on the generated commands.
</claims>
</document>
