<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61F2/30,A61F5/02,G05B19/4099,G06T17/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FITED
</assignee>

<inventors>
AY, MEHMET ERDEM
WOLFE, CAROLINE JANE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70327837
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BODY ENGAGERS AND METHODS OF USE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, devices and methods are disclosed for addressing body conditions, monitoring body conditions and adapting treatment of internal and/or external body conditions. Body engagement device 3D modeling systems are disclosed that can have a data acquisition device and a computer. The computer can analyze a digital representation of a subject acquired from the data acquisition device. The computer can measure, via a processor, physical parameters of the subject from the digital representation of the subject, detect, based on the analysis of the acquired digital representation of the subject, a body condition of the subject, determine fit parameters of the body condition and determine a treatment parameter of the body condition.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method of creating a body engagement device, the method comprising:
acquiring, via a data acquisition device, a digital representation of a subject;
measuring, via a processor, physical parameters of the subject from the digital representation of the subject;
detecting, via an analysis of the physical parameters by the processor, a body condition of the subject;
determining, via the processor, fit parameters of the body condition;
determining, via the processor, a treatment parameter of the body condition, where the treatment parameter is a desired change in at least one of the fit parameters from a parameter first value to a parameter second value; and
designing, based on the fit parameters and the treatment parameter, the body engagement device, where the body engagement device, when worn or attached to the subject, engages with the subject to change the parameter first value to the parameter second value.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting comprises comparing, via the processor, the measured physical parameters of the subject to a library of diagnosis thresholds associated with the measured physical parameters, and for each of the measured physical parameters that exceeds its associated diagnosis threshold, detecting the body condition indicated by each of the exceeded diagnosis thresholds.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein detecting comprises comparing, via the processor, a measured physical parameter and a diagnosis threshold associated with the measured physical parameter, and upon determining, via the processor, that the measured physical parameter exceeds the diagnosis threshold, detecting the body condition of the subject.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the treatment parameter is the same as the measured physical parameter compared to the diagnosis threshold.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein detecting further comprises analyzing symptoms of the body condition provided by the subject.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein analyzing symptoms of the body condition comprises asking the subject questions, via a computer, via a questionnaire.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the questionnaire includes asking the subject if they have any pain and if so where the pain is located.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein upon determining that the subject has pain in a body location that overlaps with the location of the subject's body where the measured physical parameter is measured, lowering the diagnosis threshold by 10% to 50%.
9. The method of claim 1, where the fit parameters of the body condition are dimensions of the subject measured in the measuring step.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising monitoring, via a sensor, the treatment parameter.
11. The method of claim 1 , further comprising monitoring, via a sensor, wear data of the body engagement device.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving first data recorded by a sensor on the body engagement device while the subject is wearing the body engagement device.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising redesigning the body engagement device to fit the first body condition based on the first data.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising receiving second data recorded by the sensor on the body engagement device while the subject is not wearing the body engagement device.
15. A method of creating a body engagement device, the method comprising:
identifying, by processing a first digital representation of a subject via a computer, first physical parameters of the subject associated with the first digital representation and diagnosing, by processing the first physical parameters associated with the first digital representation, a first body condition of the subject;
determining, via an analysis of the first physical parameters associated with the first digital representation via the computer, a first physical extent of the first body condition; and designing, based on the first physical extent of the first body condition, a first digital 3D model to engage with the first body condition, where the first digital 3D model, when digitally worn or digitally attached to the digital representation of the subject, at least one of stabilizes and changes the first physical extent of the first body condition.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein identifying the first body condition comprises comparing, via the computer, the first physical parameters to a library of diagnosis thresholds associated with the first physical parameters, and for each of the first physical parameters that exceeds its associated diagnosis threshold, detecting the first body condition indicated by each of the exceeded diagnosis thresholds.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising monitoring, via a sensor, the treatment parameter.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising monitoring, via a sensor, wear data of the body engagement device.
19. The method of claim 15, further comprising receiving first data recorded by a sensor on the body engagement device while the subject is not wearing the body engagement device.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising receiving second data recorded by the sensor on the body engagement device while the subject is wearing the body engagement device.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising redesigning the body engagement device to fit the first body condition based on the first data.
22. The method of claim 15, further comprising: identifying, by processing a second digital representation of the subject via the computer, second physical parameters of the subject associated with the second digital representation; comparing, via the computer, the second physical parameters identified in the second digital representation with the first physical parameters identified in the first digital
representation;
detecting, based on the comparison, a difference or a similarity between the second physical parameters identified in the second digital representation and the first physical parameters identified in the first digital representation; and
based on the difference or the similarity detected, redesigning the body engagement device to fit the difference or the similarity detected.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein redesigning the body engagement device to fit the difference or the similarity detected comprises changing dimensions of the body engagement device or making a new body engagement device.
24. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
identifying, by processing a second digital representation of the subject via the computer, second physical parameters of the subject associated with the second digital representation; and determining, via an analysis of the second physical parameters associated with the second digital representation via the computer, a second physical extent of the first body condition.
25. The method of claim 24, further comprising:
comparing, via the computer, the second physical extent of the first body condition with the first physical extent of the first body condition;
detecting, based on the comparison, a difference or a similarity between the second physical extent of the first body condition and the first physical extent of the first body condition; and
based on the difference or the similarity detected, redesigning the body engagement device to fit the second physical extent of the body condition.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein redesigning the body engagement device to fit the second physical extent comprises changing dimensions of the body engagement device or making a new body engagement device.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising re-diagnosing, by processing the second physical parameters associated with the second digital representation, the first body condition of the subject.
28. The method of claim 26, further comprising diagnosing, by processing the second physical parameters associated with the second digital representation, a second body condition of the subject, wherein the second body condition is different from the first body condition.
29. The method of claim 28, further comprising:
determining, via an analysis of the second physical parameters associated with the second digital representation via the computer, a first physical extent of the second body condition;
designing, based on the second physical extent of the first body condition, a second digital 3D model to engage with the first body condition, where the second digital 3D model, when digitally worn or digitally attached to the digital representation of the subject, at least one of stabilizes and changes the second physical extent of the first body condition; and
designing, based on the first physical extent of the second body condition, a third digital 3D model to engage with the second body condition, where the third digital 3D model, when digitally worn or digitally attached to the digital representation of the subject, at least one of stabilizes and changes the first physical extent of the second body condition.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein designing the second digital 3D model comprises redesigning the first digital 3D model to fit the second physical extent of the first body condition.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein redesigning the first digital 3D model to fit the second physical extent of the first body condition comprises changing dimensions of the first digital 3D model.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein designing the third digital 3D model comprises designing the third digital 3D model to fit the first physical extent of the second body condition.
33. The method of claim 31, wherein the second digital 3D model is a model of a first body engagement device and the third digital 3D model is a model of a second body engagement device.
34. The method of claim 31, wherein a digital model of the body engagement device comprises the second digital 3D model and the third digital 3D model.
35. The method of claim 28, further comprising:
determining, via an analysis of the second physical parameters associated with the second digital representation via the computer, a first physical extent of the second body condition; and designing, based on the second physical extent of the first body condition and the first physical extent of the second body condition, a second digital 3D model to engage with the first body condition and with second body condition, where the second digital 3D model, when digitally worn or digitally attached to the digital representation of the subject, at least one of stabilizes and changes the second physical extent of the first body condition and at least one of stabilizes and changes the first physical extent of the second body condition.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein designing the second digital 3D model comprises redesigning the first digital 3D model to fit the first and second body conditions.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein redesigning the first digital 3D model to fit the first and second body conditions comprises changing dimensions of the first digital 3D model.
38. The method of claim 35, wherein based on the second digital 3D model, the method further comprises redesigning the body engagement device to fit the second physical extent of the first body condition and the first physical extent of the second body condition.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein redesigning the body engagement device to fit the second physical extent of the first body condition and the first physical extent of the second body condition comprises changing dimensions of the body engagement device or making a new body engagement device.
40. A body engagement device 3D modeling system, comprising:
a data acquisition device; and
a computer, wherein the computer is configured to:
analyze a digital representation of a subject acquired from the data acquisition device;
measure, via a processor, physical parameters of the subject from the digital representation of the subject;
detect, based on the analysis of the acquired digital representation of the subject, a body condition of the subject;
determine fit parameters of the body condition;
determine a treatment parameter of the body condition, where the treatment parameter is a desired change in at least one of the fit parameters from a parameter first value to a parameter second value; and
design, based on the fit parameters and the treatment parameter, the body engagement device, where the body engagement device, when worn or attached to the subject, engages with the subject to change the parameter first value to the parameter second value.
</claims>
</document>
