<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N10/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
1QB INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MATSUURA, SHUNJI
MILLS, KYLE IAN
PESAH, ARTHUR CHALOM
RONAGH, POOYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70974880
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE-DRIVEN QUANTUM COMPUTING
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides methods and systems for using one or more artificial intelligence (AI) procedures (such as one or more machine learning (ML) or reinforcement learning (RL) procedures) implemented on a classical computer to perform a heuristic through interaction with a computation performed using a classical or non-classical computer (such as a quantum computer).
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A system for performing a computation using artificial intelligence (AI), comprising:
(a) at least one computer configured to perform a computation comprising one or more tunable parameters and one or more non-tunable parameters and output a report indicative of said computation, said computer comprising:
(i) one or more registers, wherein said one or more registers are configured to perform said computation;
(ii) a measurement unit configured to measure a state of at least one of said one or more registers to determine a representation of said state of said one or more registers, thereby determining a representation of said computation; and
(b) at least one AI control unit configured to (1) control said computation, (2) to perform at least one AI procedure to determine one or more tunable parameters corresponding to said computation, and (3) to direct said tunable parameters to said computer, wherein said at least one artificial intelligence (AI) control unit comprises one or more AI control unit parameters.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein said computer comprises a hybrid computing system comprising:
(a) at least one non-classical computer configured to perform said computation, comprising:
(i) said one or more registers; and
(ii) said measurement unit; and
(b) said AI control unit.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein said at least one non-classical computer comprises at least one quantum computer; wherein said one or more registers comprises one or more qubits, said one or more qubits configured to perform said computation; wherein said measurement unit is configured to measure a state of at least one of said one or more qubits to determine a representation of said state of said at least one of said one or more qubits, thereby determining a representation of said computation; wherein said measurement unit is further configured to provide said representation of said computation to said AI control unit.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein said measurement unit is configured to measure said state of at least one of said one or more qubits to obtain syndrome data representative of partial information about a current state of said computation and to provide said syndrome data to said AI control unit.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein said one or more registers comprise computation registers and syndrome registers; wherein said computation registers comprise one or more computation qubits, said one or more computation qubits configured to perform said computation; wherein said syndrome registers comprise one or more syndrome qubits different from said one or more computation qubits, wherein said one or more syndrome qubits are quantum mechanically entangled with said one or more computation qubits and wherein said one or more syndrome qubits are not for performing said computation; and wherein said measurement unit is configured to measure a state of said one or more syndrome qubits to determine a representation of a state of said one or more computation qubits, thereby determining said representation of said computation.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein said computation comprises quantum computation.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein said quantum computation comprises adiabatic quantum computation.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein said quantum computation comprises quantum approximate optimization algorithm (QAOA).
9. The system of claim 6, wherein said quantum computation comprises variational quantum algorithm.
10. The system of claim 6, wherein said quantum computation comprises error correction on a quantum register.
11. The system of claim 6, wherein said quantum computation comprises a fault tolerant quantum computation gadget.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein said computation comprises classical computation.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein said computation comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of: simulated annealing, simulated quantum annealing, parallel tempering, parallel tempering with Isoenergetic cluster moves, diffusion Monte Carlo, population annealing and quantum Monte Carlo.
14. The system of claim 3, wherein said at least one quantum computer is configured to perform one or more quantum operations comprising at least one member selected from the group consisting of: preparation of initial states of said one or more qubits; implementation of one or more single qubit quantum gates on said one or more qubits; implementation of one or more multi-qubit quantum gates on said one or more qubits; and adiabatic evolution from an initial to a final Hamiltonian using one or more qubits.
15. The system of claim 5, wherein said representation of said state of said one or more computation qubits is mathematically correlated with said state of said one or more syndrome qubits.
16. The system of claim 5, wherein said measurement unit is configured to measure said state of said one or more syndrome qubits during an evolution of said one or more computation qubits during said computation.
17. The system of claim 2, wherein said at least one non-classical computer comprises an integrated photonic coherent Ising machine computer.
18. The system of claim 2, wherein said at least one non-classical computer comprises a network of optic parametric pulses.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one AI procedure comprises at least one machine learning (ML) procedure.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein said at least one ML procedure comprises at least one ML training procedure.
21. The system of claim 19, wherein said at least one ML procedure comprises at least one ML inference procedure.
22. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one AI procedure comprises at least one reinforcement learning (RL) procedure.
23. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one AI procedure is configured to modify said tunable parameters during said computation, thereby providing one or more modified tunable parameters.
24. The system of claim 1, wherein said one or more modified tunable parameters are configured to modify said computation during a course of said computation.
25. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one AI control unit comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of: a tensor processing unit (TPU), a graphical processing unit (GPU), a field-programmable gate array (FPGA), and an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC).
26. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one computer comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of: a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) and an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC).
27. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one AI control unit is in communication with said at least one computer over a network.
28. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one AI control unit is in communication with said at least computer over a cloud network.
29. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one AI control unit is integrated as a classical processing system operating at deep cryogenic temperatures within a refrigerator system.
30. The system of claim 1, wherein said one or more tunable parameters and one or more non-tunable parameters define a next segment of said computation comprising an instruction set from a current representation of said computation.
31. The system of claim 1, wherein said one or more tunable parameters comprise an initial temperature of said computation.
32. The system of claim 1, one or more tunable parameters comprise a temperature schedule of said computation.
33. The system of claim 1, wherein said one or more tunable parameters comprise a final temperature of said computation.
34. The system of claim 1, wherein said one or more tunable parameters comprise a schedule of pumping energy of said network.
35. The system of any one of claims 3-5, wherein said one or more tunable parameters comprise an indication of quantum gates for a segment of said quantum computation.
36. The system of any one of claims 3-5, wherein said one or more tunable parameters comprise an indication of a local operations and classical communication (LOCC) channel for a segment of said quantum computation.
37. The system of claim 1, wherein said AI control unit comprises a neural network and wherein said one or more AI control unit parameters comprise neural network weights corresponding to said neural network.
38. A method for training an artificial intelligence (AI) control unit, compnsmg:
(a) obtaining (1) one or more instances of one or more non-tunable parameters and (2) one or more tunable parameters and AI control unit parameters;
(b) configuring said AI control unit using said AI control unit parameters;
(c) selecting at least one instance of said one or more non-tunable parameters;
(d) configuring a computer using said at least one instance of said one or more non-tunable parameters and said one or more tunable parameters, wherein a value(s) of said one or more tunable parameters are directed by said AI control unit, and wherein said computer comprises one or more registers;
(e) performing a segment of a computation using said one or more registers of said computer;
(f) performing one or more measurements of at least one of said one or more registers to obtain a representation of said segment of said computation;
(g) repeating (c)-(f) a plurality of times;
(h) outputting a report indicative of each said computation performed said plurality of times;
(i) reconfiguring said AI control unit based on said report by modifying said AI control unit parameters; and
(j) repeating (c)-(i) until a stopping criterion is met.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein said AI control unit and said computer comprise a system for performing said computation, wherein said system further comprises the system of any one of claims 1-37.
40. The method of claim 38 or 39, wherein the performing one or more measurements of said at least one of said one or more registers to obtain said representation of said segment of said computation comprises:
(a) if said segment is not a last segment for said computation, said one or more measurements comprise syndrome data;
(b) if said segment is said last segment for said computation, said one or more measurements comprise computation data.
41. A method for performing a computation using a system comprising a computer and an artificial intelligence (AI) control unit comprising:
(a) obtaining one or more non-tunable parameters;
(b) configuring said computer using said one or more non-tunable parameters;
(c) configuring said computer using said one or more tunable parameters, wherein said one or more tunable parameters are directed by said AI control unit;
(d) performing a segment of said computation using one or more registers of said computer;
(e) performing one or more measurements of at least one of said one or more registers to obtain a representation of said segment of said computation;
(f) repeating (c), (d), and (e) until a stopping criterion is met; and
(g) outputting a report indicative of said computation.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein said AI control unit and said computer comprise a system for performing said computation, wherein said system further comprises the system of any one of claims 1-37.
43. A method for performing a computation comprising:
(a) obtaining one or more non-tunable parameters from a user;
(b) directing a value(s) of one or more tunable parameters to a computer using an artificial intelligence (AI) control unit, wherein said computer comprises one or more registers;
(c) using said one or more registers to perform said computation, which computation comprises using said one or more non-tunable parameters and said one or more tunable parameters;
(d) performing one or more measurements of said one or more registers to obtain a representation of said computation; and
(e) outputting a report indicative of said computation.
44. The method of claim 43, wherein said AI control unit and said computer comprise a system for performing said computation, wherein said system further comprises the system of any one of claims 1-37.
45. A method for training a hybrid computer comprising at least one artificial intelligence (AI) control unit and at least one non-classical computer to perform a computation, comprising:
(a) using said AI control unit to:
(i) obtain a training set comprising a plurality of instances of said computation;
(ii) obtain and initialize AI control unit parameters and one or more tunable parameters;
(iii) select an instance of said plurality of instances;
(iv) initialize said at least one non-classical computer; and
(v) obtain and initialize a state-action epoch schedule comprising a plurality of state-action epochs;
(b) using said at least one non-classical computer to:
(i) perform said instance up to a next state-action epoch of said plurality of state-action epochs;
(ii) perform one or more measurements of said syndrome register to obtain an instantaneous reward corresponding to said selected instance; and
(iii) provide an indication of said instantaneous reward to said AI control unit and thereby update said AI control unit parameters based on said instantaneous reward;
(c) using said AI control unit to provide a set of tunable parameters from said one or more tunable parameters;
(d) repeating (b) until a first stopping criterion is met; and
(e) repeating (a)(iii) - (d) until a second stopping criterion is met.
46. A method for performing a computation using a hybrid computer comprising at least one artificial intelligence (AI) control unit and at least one nonclassical computer, comprising:
(a) using said AI control unit to:
(i) obtain a set of instructions representative of said computation, said instructions comprising a tunable instruction set comprising a plurality of tunable instructions;
(ii) obtain a trained policy and a state-action epoch schedule comprising a plurality of state-action epochs; (iii) initialize said at least one non-classical computer; and
(iv) initialize said plurality of state-action epochs and said tunable instruction set;
(b) using said at least one quantum computer to:
(i) perform said computation up to a next state-action epoch of said plurality of state-action epochs;
(ii) perform one or more measurements of one or more registers to obtain a representation of said computation; and
(iii) obtain a next plurality of tunable instructions; and
(c) repeating (a) - (b) until a stopping criterion is met.
47. A method for training an AI control unit, comprising:
(a) obtaining one or more non-tunable parameters, one or more tunable parameters, and AI control unit parameters;
(b) configuring said AI control unit using said AI control unit parameters;
(c) configuring a computer using said one or more non-tunable parameters and said one or more tunable parameters, wherein values of said one or more tunable parameters are directed by said AI control unit;
(d) performing a computation using said computer;
(e) performing one or more measurements to obtain a representation of said computation;
(f) outputting a report indicative of said computation;
(g) reconfiguring said AI control unit based on said report by modifying said AI control unit parameters.
</claims>
</document>
