<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T5/00,G06T7/20,H04N19/527,H04N7/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VOYAGE81
</assignee>

<inventors>
MANGAN, SHMUEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74113879
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REAL-TIME IMAGE GENERATION IN MOVING SCENES
</title>

<abstract>
A method comprising: receiving a high frame rate video stream of a scene, wherein the scene comprises at least one object in motion relative to an imaging device acquiring the video stream; continuously dividing, in real time, the video stream into at least one consecutive sequences ofn frames each; with respect to each current sequence: (i) estimating pixel motion between at least some pairs of frames in the sequence, (ii) calculating a motion vector field for each pixel in the sequence, (iii) generating a representative frame which co-locates all of the pixels to respective pixel positions, based on the calculated motion vector fields, and (iv) aggregating, for each of the respective pixel positions, pixel values from all frames in the sequence; and outputting, in real time, a stream of the representative frames, wherein the stream has a lower frame rate than the high frame rate.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A system comprising:
at least one hardware processor; and
a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon program instructions, the program instructions executable by the at least one hardware processor to:
receive a high frame rate video stream of a scene, wherein said scene comprises at least one object in motion relative to an imaging device acquiring said video stream,
continuously divide, in real time, said video stream into at least one consecutive sequences of n frames each,
with respect to each current sequence:
(i) estimate pixel motion between at least some pairs of frames in said sequence,
(ii) calculate a motion vector field for each pixel in said sequence,
(iii) generate a representative frame which co-locates all of said pixels to respective pixel positions, based on said calculated motion vector fields, and
(iv) aggregate, for each of said respective pixel positions, pixel values from all frames in said sequence, and
output, in real time, a stream of said representative frames, wherein said stream has a lower frame rate than said high frame rate.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein at least some of said pairs of frames are adjacent pairs of frames.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein at least some of said pairs of frames are nonadjacent pairs of frames.
4. The system of any one of claims 1-3, wherein said estimating is only performed with respect to a subset of said pairs in said sequence.
5. The system of any one of claims 1-4, wherein said estimating is initialized with at least one of: a said estimating associated with a preceding one of said pairs in said sequence; a said estimating associated with a preceding time point in said video stream; and a hierarchical motion estimation.
6. The system of any one of claims 1-5, wherein said estimating is performed using an optical flow system.
7. The system of any one of claims 1-6, wherein said estimating is based, at least in part, on down-sampling resolution level.
8. The system of any one of claims 1-7, wherein said calculating is further refined over (i) a subset of said frames in said sequence, and (ii) a subset of resolution levels, by jointly solving multi-frame multi-level temporalspatial smoothness constraints with respect to said motion vector field.
9. The system of any one of claims 1-8, wherein said high frame rate is between 120-10,000 frames per second (fps).
10. The system of any one of claims 1-9, wherein n is determined based, at least in part, on a ratio between said high frame rate and said lower frame rate.
11. The system of any one of claims 1-10, wherein said lower frame rate is determined based on a desired frame rate of said output stream.
12. The system of any one of claims 1-11, wherein n is further determined based, at least in part, on a processing time associated with said estimating, calculating, generating and aggregating.
13. The system of any one of claims 1-12, wherein said outputting further comprises
(i) generating an image from each of said representative frames in RGB color space, and
(ii) outputting said image.
14. The system of any one of claims 1-13, wherein, for each of said respective pixel positions, said aggregating is performed using pixel averaging.
15. A method comprising: receiving a high frame rate video stream of a scene, wherein said scene comprises at least one object in motion relative to an imaging device acquiring said video stream;
continuously dividing, in real time, said video stream into at least one consecutive sequences of n frames each;
with respect to each current sequence:
(i) estimating pixel motion between at least some pairs of frames in said sequence,
(ii) calculating a motion vector field for each pixel in said sequence,
(iii) generating a representative frame which co-locates all of said pixels to respective pixel positions, based on said calculated motion vector fields, and
(iv) aggregating, for each of said respective pixel positions, pixel values from all frames in said sequence; and
outputting, in real time, a stream of said representative frames, wherein said stream has a lower frame rate than said high frame rate.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein at least some of said pairs of frames are adjacent pairs of frames.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein at least some of said pairs of frames are nonadjacent pairs of frames.
18. The method of any one of claims 15-17, wherein said estimating is only performed with respect to a subset of said pairs in said sequence.
19. The method of any one of claims 15-18, wherein said estimating is initialized with at least one of: a said estimating associated with a preceding one of said pairs in said sequence; a said estimating associated with a preceding time point in said video stream; and a hierarchical motion estimation.
20. The method of any one of claims 15-19, wherein said estimating is performed using an optical flow method.
21. The method of any one of claims 15-20, wherein said estimating is based, at least in part, on down-sampling resolution level.
22. The method of any one of claims 15-21, wherein said calculating is further refined over (i) a subset of said frames in said sequence, and (ii) a subset of resolution levels, by jointly solving multi-frame multi-level temporal-spatial smoothness constraints with respect to said motion vector field.
23. The method of any one of claims 15-22, wherein said high frame rate is between 120-10,000 frames per second (fps).
24. The method of any one of claims 15-23, wherein n is determined based, at least in part, on a ratio between said high frame rate and said lower frame rate.
25. The method of any one of claims 15-24, wherein said lower frame rate is determined based on a desired frame rate of said output stream.
26. The method of any one of claims 15-25, wherein n is further determined based, at least in part, on a processing time associated with said estimating, calculating, generating and aggregating.
27. The method of any one of claims 15-26, wherein said outputting further comprises (i) generating an image from each of said representative frames in RGB color space, and (ii) outputting said image.
28. The method of any one of claims 15-27, wherein, for each of said respective pixel positions, said aggregating is performed using pixel averaging.
29. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, the program code executable by at least one hardware processor to:
receive a high frame rate video stream of a scene, wherein said scene comprises at least one object in motion relative to an imaging device acquiring said video stream;
continuously divide, in real time, said video stream into at least one consecutive sequences of n frames each;
with respect to each current sequence:
(i) estimate pixel motion between at least some pairs of frames in said sequence, (ii) calculate a motion vector field for each pixel in said sequence,
(iii) generate a representative frame which co-locates all of said pixels to respective pixel positions, based on said calculated motion vector fields, and
(iv) aggregate, for each of said respective pixel positions, pixel values from all frames in said sequence; and
output, in real time, a stream of said representative frames, wherein said stream has a lower frame rate than said high frame rate.
30. The computer program product of claim 29, wherein at least some of said pairs of frames are adjacent pairs of frames.
31. The computer program product of claim 29, wherein at least some of said pairs of frames are non-adjacent pairs of frames.
32. The computer program product of any one of claims 29-31, wherein said estimating is only performed with respect to a subset of said pairs in said sequence.
33. The computer program product of any one of claims 29-32, wherein said estimating is initialized with at least one of: a said estimating associated with a preceding one of said pairs in said sequence; a said estimating associated with a preceding time point in said video stream; and a hierarchical motion estimation.
34. The computer program product of any one of claims 29-33, wherein said estimating is performed using an optical flow system.
35. The computer program product of any one of claims 29-34, wherein said estimating is based, at least in part, on down-sampling resolution level.
36. The computer program product of any one of claims 29-35, wherein said calculating is further refined over (i) a subset of said frames in said sequence, and (ii) a subset of resolution levels, by jointly solving multi-frame multi-level temporal-spatial smoothness constraints with respect to said motion vector field.
37. The computer program product of any one of claims 29-36, wherein said high frame rate is between 120-10,000 frames per second (fps).
38. The computer program product of any one of claims 29-37, wherein n is determined based, at least in part, on a ratio between said high frame rate and said lower frame rate.
39. The computer program product of any one of claims 29-38, wherein said lower frame rate is determined based on a desired frame rate of said output stream.
40. The computer program product of any one of claims 29-39, wherein n is further determined based, at least in part, on a processing time associated with said estimating, calculating, generating and aggregating.
41. The computer program product of any one of claims 29-40, wherein said outputting further comprises (i) generating an image from each of said representative frames in RGB color space, and (ii) outputting said image.
42. The computer program product of any one of claims 29-41, wherein, for each of said respective pixel positions, said aggregating is performed using pixel averaging.
</claims>
</document>
