<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-10
</priority_date>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAKER, BRIAN
RILEY, TIM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71076052
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTING IMMUNOGENIC PEPTIDES USING STRUCTURAL AND PHYSICAL MODELING
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are methods for predicting immunogenicity of a candidate peptide. The method comprises obtaining a three-dimensional candidate structural representation of the candidate peptide bound to an antigen presenting molecule; obtaining a plurality of candidate measurements; and predicting, with an electronic processor, the immunogenicity of the candidate peptide based upon the plurality of candidate measurements. Further disclosed herein are methods for producing vaccines. The method for producing a vaccine comprises predicting immunogenicity of one or more candidate peptides using the methods described herein, and producing a vaccine comprising one or more peptides predicted to be immunogenic.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for predicting immunogenicity of a candidate peptide, the method comprising: a. Obtaining a three-dimensional candidate structural representation of the candidate
peptide bound to an antigen presenting molecule;
b. Obtaining a plurality of candidate measurements, wherein each candidate measurement is associated with at least one feature of the candidate structural representation; and c. Predicting, with an electronic processor, the immunogenicity of the candidate peptide, wherein the electronic processor is configured to predict the immunogenicity of the candidate peptide based upon the plurality of candidate measurements.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic processor is further configured to predict the immunogenicity of the candidate peptide based upon a plurality of reference measurements,
wherein each reference measurement is associated with at least one feature of one or more reference structural representations,
wherein each reference structural representation is a three-dimensional representation of a reference peptide bound to the antigen presenting molecule,
wherein each reference peptide is a known immunogenic peptide or a known nonimmunogenic peptide.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the electronic processor is configured to predict the immunogenicity of the candidate peptide using a machine-learned model trained to predict immunogenicity of the candidate peptide using the plurality of reference measurements.
4. The method of claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the electronic processor is further configured to predict the immunogenicity of the candidate peptide based upon whether each reference peptide is an immunogenic peptide or a non-immunogenic peptide.
5. The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the antigen presenting molecule is a class I MHC molecule or a class II MHC molecule.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the antigen presenting molecule is HLA-A2.
7. The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the plurality of candidate measurements and/or the plurality of reference measurements are selected from the group consisting of solvent accessible surface areas, solvation energies, hydrophobicity, electrostatic interactions, and van der Waals interactions.
8. The method of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the candidate peptide is a neoantigen, a viral peptide, a non-mutated self peptide, or a post-translationally modified peptide.
9. A method for producing a vaccine, the method comprising:
a. Obtaining a plurality of candidate structural representations, wherein each of the
candidate structural representations is a three-dimensional representation of a candidate peptide bound to an antigen presenting molecule;
b. Obtaining a plurality of candidate measurements for each candidate structural
representation, wherein each candidate measurement is associated with at least one feature of each candidate structural representation;
c. Predicting, with an electronic processor, the immunogenicity of each candidate peptide based upon the plurality of candidate measurements for each candidate structural representation;
d. Producing a vaccine comprising one or more candidate peptides predicted to be
immunogenic by the electronic processor.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the electronic processor is further configured to predict the immunogenicity of each candidate peptide based upon a plurality of reference measurements,
wherein each reference measurement is associated with at least one feature of one or more reference structural representations, wherein each reference structural representation is a three-dimensional representation of a reference peptide bound to the antigen presenting molecule,
wherein each reference peptide is a known immunogenic peptide or a known nonimmunogenic peptide.
11. The method of claim 9 or 10, wherein the electronic processor is configured to predict the immunogenicity of each candidate peptide using a machine-learned model trained to predict immunogenicity of each candidate peptide using the plurality of reference measurements.
12. The method of claim 10 or claim 11, wherein the electronic processor is further
configured to predict the immunogenicity of the candidate peptide based upon whether each reference peptide is an immunogenic peptide or a non-immunogenic peptide.
13. The method of any one of claims 10-12, wherein the antigen presenting molecule is a class I MHC molecule or a class II MHC molecule.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the antigen presenting molecule is HLA-A2.
15. The method of any one of claims 10-14, wherein the plurality of candidate measurements and/or the plurality of reference measurements are selected from the group consisting of solvent accessible surface areas, solvation energies, hydrophobicity, electrostatic interactions, and van der Waals interactions.
16. The method of any one of claims 10-15, wherein each candidate peptide is a neoantigen or a viral peptide.
</claims>
</document>
