<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01J3/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TEAKORIGIN
</assignee>

<inventors>
MISEO, ELLEN
OVERCASH, BRENT
SHEWMAKER, JOHN
SUTCU, YAGIZ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70463898
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES FOR SCORING FOOD SPECIMENS, AND RELATED METHODS AND APPARATUS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for scoring an aspect of a sample of a food may include obtaining spectroscopic data indicating spectroscopic characteristics of the sample; identifying the food; identifying analytes associated with the aspect of the sample based on the identity of the food; and, for each of the identified analytes, obtaining a measurement model configured to estimate an amount of the analyte present in specimens of the food based on spectroscopic characteristics of the specimens, and using the measurement model to determine an amount of the analyte in the sample based on the spectroscopic data. The method may also include determining a score for the aspect of the sample based on (1) the determined amounts of the identified analytes and (2) reference amounts of the identified analytes and/or reference values of one or more analyte expressions that include combinations of at least two of the identified analytes.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for scoring an aspect of a sample of a food, comprising:
obtaining spectroscopic data indicating spectroscopic characteristics of the sample;
obtaining an identity of the food;
identifying one or more analytes associated with the aspect of the sample based on the identity of the food and profile data corresponding to the identified food;
for each of the identified analytes:
obtaining a respective measurement model configured to estimate an amount of the analyte present in specimens of the food based on spectroscopic characteristics of the specimens; and
using the respective measurement model to determine an amount of the analyte in the sample based on the spectroscopic data;
determining a score for the aspect of the sample based on (1) the determined amounts of the identified analytes in the sample and (2a) respective reference amounts of the identified analytes and/or (2b) respective reference values of one or more analyte expressions, wherein each analyte expression includes a respective combination of at least two of the identified analytes, and wherein the profile data indicate the reference amounts and/or reference values; and
presenting the determined score for the aspect of the sample to a user via a user interface of a computer.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the aspect of the sample is a quality of the sample.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the score representing the quality of the sample comprises a combination of (a) one or more individual analyte scores corresponding to the one or more individual analytes and/or (b) one or more analyte expression scores corresponding to the one or more analyte expressions.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein determining the score representing the quality of the sample comprises, for each of the individual analytes:
determining a value representing a relationship between the reference amount of the individual analyte and the determined amount of the individual analyte; and
determining the individual analyte score corresponding to the individual analyte based on the value representing the relationship between the reference and determined amount of the individual analyte.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the relationship between the reference and determined amounts of the individual analyte is a ratio of the determined amount to the reference amount, a difference between the determined amount and the reference amount, or a percentage difference between the determined amount and the reference amount.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the individual analyte score corresponding to a particular individual analyte is determined based on a specified function of the value representing the relationship between the reference and determined amounts of the individual analyte.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the specified function includes a linear function, a non linear function, a parabolic function, an exponential function, and/or a step function.
8. The method of claim 4, wherein determining the score representing the quality of the sample comprises, for each of the analyte expressions:
combining the determined amounts of the analytes included in the analyte expression according to the combination associated with the analyte expression, thereby obtaining a determined value of the analyte expression;
determining a value representing a relationship between the reference value of the analyte expression and the determined value of the analyte expression; and
determining the analyte expression score corresponding to the analyte expression based on the value representing the relationship between the reference and determined values of the analyte expression.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the relationship between the reference and determined values of the analyte expression is a ratio of the determined amount to the reference amount, a difference between the determined amount and the reference amount, or a percentage difference between the determined amount and the reference amount.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the combination of at least two analytes included in a particular analyte expression comprises a weighted sum of the at least two analytes, a product of the at least two analytes, a ratio of the at least two analytes, or a specified function of the at least two analytes.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the analyte expression score corresponding to a particular analyte expression is determined based on a specified function of the value representing the relationship between the reference and determined values of the analyte expression.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the specified function includes a linear function, a non linear function, a parabolic function, an exponential function, and/or a step function.
13. The method of claim 3, wherein each of the individual analyte scores is a numeric value within a range specified for the corresponding individual analyte.
14. The method of claim 3, wherein each of the analyte expression scores is a numeric value within a range specified for the corresponding analyte expression.
15. The method of claim 3, wherein the combination of the individual analyte scores and/or analyte expression scores is a specified function of the individual analyte scores and/or analyte expression scores.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the specified function of the individual analyte scores and/or analyte expression scores is a weighted linear sum comprising one or more terms, wherein each of the terms comprises a product of (1) a respective term weight and (2) a respective individual analyte score or a respective analyte expression score.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the terms weights are user-adjustable.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the quality score is a numeric value within a specified range.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the quality score is a classification selected from a set of classifications.
20. The method of claim 2, further comprising:
making a determination to accept or reject delivery of a shipment of samples of the food including the sample based, at least in part, on the quality score for the sample.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising:
accepting or rejecting delivery of the shipment of samples in accordance with the determination.
22. The method of claim 2, further comprising:
assigning the sample to a grouping based, at least in part, on the quality score, wherein the grouping is one of a plurality of groupings.
23. The method of claim 22, further comprising:
placing the sample in a container of samples corresponding to the assigned grouping, wherein the container is one of a plurality of containers corresponding to the plurality of groupings, and wherein the placing is performed by a food-handling machine.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the food-handling machine is a robot, and wherein obtaining the spectroscopic data comprises performing a spectroscopic scan of the sample at the plurality of wavelengths using a field spectrometer included in a food-handling component of the robot.
25. The method of claim 2, further comprising: determining a sale price or a purchase price for the sample or a set of samples including the sample based, at least in part, on the quality score for the sample.
26. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the identity of the food comprises receiving user input indicating the identity of the food.
27. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the identity of the food comprises receiving data obtained by scanning a label associated with the sample of the food, and wherein the identity of the food is determined based on the received data.
28. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the identity of the food comprises:
classifying the sample based on at least a portion of the spectroscopic data indicating the spectroscopic characteristics of the sample, wherein classifying the sample includes:
providing at least the portion of the spectroscopic data as input to a classifier; and executing the classifier on the provided input, wherein the classifier provides output indicating a classification of the sample, and wherein the classification indicates the identity of the food.
29. The method of claim 1, wherein the identified analytes include four or more analytes selected from a group comprising at least one sugar, at least one acid, at least one vitamin, at least one mineral, at least one fat, at least one starch, at least one fiber, at least one carotenoid, at least one flavonoid, at least one protein, moisture content, alcohol content, and/or gluten.
30. The method of claim 1, wherein the food is an apple and the identified analytes include sucrose, glucose, fructose, malic acid, ascorbic acid, moisture content, anti-oxidants, and/or total anthocyanins.
31. The method of claim 1, wherein the food is a blueberry and the identified analytes include glucose, fructose, moisture content, and/or total anthocyanins.
32. The method of claim 1, wherein the food is a banana and the identified analytes include sucrose, glucose, fructose, malic acid, citric acid, ascorbic acid, and/or moisture content.
33. The method of claim 1, wherein the food is a green grape and the identified analytes include malic acid, tartaric acid, moisture content, glucose, and/or fructose.
34. The method of claim 1, wherein the food is a red grape and the identified analytes include malic acid, tartaric acid, moisture content, glucose, fructose, and/or total anthocyanins.
35. The method of claim 1, wherein the food is a tomato and the identified analytes include lycopene, malic acid, citric acid, ascorbic acid, moisture content, glucose, fructose, and/or total carotenoids.
36. The method of claim 1, wherein the food is a strawberry and the identified analytes include glucose, fructose, ascorbic acid, total anthocyanins, citric acid, anti-oxidants, and/or moisture content.
37. The method of claim 1, wherein the food is spinach and the identified analytes include moisture content, ascorbic acid, anti-oxidants, oxalic acid, total carotenoids, and Lutein carotenoids.
38. The method of claim 1, wherein the food is avocado and the identified analytes include moisture content, lipids, linoleic fatty acid, oleic fatty acid, palmitic fatty acid, and/or palmitoleic fatty acid.
39. The method of claim 1, wherein the food is a fruit and the identified analytes include: moisture content;
at least one sugar selected from the group consisting of glucose and fructose; and at least one acid selected from the group consisting of ascorbic acid and malic acid.
40. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the spectroscopic data comprises performing a spectroscopic scan of the sample at the plurality of wavelengths.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein the spectroscopic scan is performed by a field spectrometer.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein the field spectrometer is hand-held, coupled to an automated food-handling device, or coupled to an automated food-distribution device.
43. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement model is a linear multivariate regression model, a non-linear multivariate regression model, or a blend of two or more of the foregoing.
44. The method of claim 1, wherein the aspect of the sample is a quality-price index of the sample, wherein the score for the aspect of the sample is a quality-price index score, and wherein the quality-price index score is further based on a price of the sample.
45. The method of claim 44, wherein the quality-price index score is based on a ratio between a price of the sample and a quality score of the sample.
46. A computer system comprising:
one or more processing devices and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the processing devices, to cause the processing devices to perform operations including:
obtaining spectroscopic data indicating spectroscopic characteristics of the sample; obtaining an identity of the food; identifying one or more analytes associated with the aspect of the sample based on the identity of the food and profile data corresponding to the identified food;
for each of the identified analytes:
obtaining a respective measurement model configured to estimate an amount of the analyte present in specimens of the food based on spectroscopic characteristics of the specimens; and
using the respective measurement model to determine an amount of the analyte in the sample based on the spectroscopic data;
determining a score for the aspect of the sample based on (1) the determined amounts of the identified analytes in the sample and (2a) respective reference amounts of the identified analytes and/or (2b) respective reference values of one or more analyte expressions, wherein each analyte expression includes a respective combination of at least two of the identified analytes, and wherein the profile data indicate the reference amounts and/or reference values; and
presenting the determined score for the aspect of the sample to a user via a user interface of a computer.
</claims>
</document>
