<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C09K3/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
MIT (MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLUM, STEVEN
LANGER, ROBERT
REKER, DANIEL
TRAVERSO, CARLO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72240188
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS OF AVOIDING EXCIPIENT-BASED ADVERSE EFFECTS AND OF EXPLOITING BIOLOGICAL PROPERTIES OF GRAS COMPOUNDS
</title>

<abstract>
This invention relates to methods of selecting or tailoring a therapeutic for an individual subject, reducing the excipient burden in a subject, and identifying adverse reaction-associated inactive ingredients in a subject being administered multiple drugs. The invention also relates to methods of inhibiting UGT2B7 activity or P-gp activity, methods of treating a subject via co-administration of a UGT2B7 inhibitor or a P-gp inhibitor, and pharmaceutical compositions comprising gum rosin, abietic acid, or vitamin A palmate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of selecting a therapeutic for an individual subject, the method comprising the steps of:
a) providing a formulation network that depicts available alternatives of dosage forms and interchangeabilities of functionally equivalent inactive ingredients,
b) selecting a first drug formulation from within the formulation network wherein the first drug formulation comprises an active pharmaceutical ingredient and at least one inactive ingredient,
c) identifying at least one ingredient that is toxic to the individual subject from among the at least one inactive ingredient in the first drug formulation, and
d) selecting and administering a second drug formulation from within the formulation network wherein the second drug formulation comprises the active pharmaceutical ingredient and does not comprise the at least one toxic ingredient.
2. A method of treating a subject with a therapeutic comprising an active
pharmaceutical ingredient (API) comprising
a) evaluating a first set of excipients provided with an API for toxicity in the subject; b) replacing the first set of excipients wherein one or more of the excipients is found to be toxic to the subject with a second set of excipients, wherein the toxic excipients in the first set of excipients are replaced with non-toxic excipients that are functionally equivalent to the corresponding toxic excipient; and
c) administering the API with the second set of excipients to the subject.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the toxicity is an allergy.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the allergy is to gluten or lactose.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the functional equivalence is selected from the group consisting of antiadherence, binding, coating, color, disintegration, flavor, providing glide, lubrication, preservation of the API, prevention of water absorption, sweetening, bulking, vehicles, and bioequivalents.
6 The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more excipients found to be toxic to the subject are selected from the group consisting of a food, a polymer, a dye, and a sugar.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more excipients found to be toxic to the subject are selected from the group consisting of lactose, corn starch, PEG, povidone, carboxymethy!ce!iu!ose, gelatin, Brilliant Blue, Sunset Yellow FCF, Allura Red, propylene glycol, indigo carmine, mannitol, sucrose, sodium benzoate, parabens, aspartame, erythrosine, tartrazine, saccharine, poloxamer, soybean oil, benzyl alcohol, vanilla, castor oil, cetyl alcohol, sulfite, PEG castor oils, peanut oil, benzoic acid, corn syrup, sesame oil, starch wheat, casein, banana essence, milk, glucosamine, new coccine, and stearyl alcohol.
8. The method of claim 2, wherein the toxicity is gastrointestinal distress.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the gastrointestinal distress is caused by a fermentable oligosaccharide, disaccharide, monosaccharide, or polyol (FODMAP).
10. A method of mitigating toxicity in a subject wherein the toxicity is the result of at least one toxic inactive ingredient in a first therapeutic composition, the method comprising
a) providing a formulation network which depicts available alternatives of dosage forms and interchangeabilities of inactive ingredients,
b) identifying the at least one toxic inactive ingredient in the first therapeutic composition,
c) applying the formulation network to identify a second therapeutic composition comprising the same API or a therapeutica!ly-similar API as the first therapeutic composition, wherein the second therapeutic composition comprises at least one inactive ingredient that is functionally equivalent to the at least one toxic inactive ingredient in the first therapeutic composition, and wherein the at least one inactive ingredient of the second therapeutic composition has reduced toxicity in the subject with respect to the at least one toxic ingredient in the first therapeutic composition, and
d) selecting and administering the second therapeutic composition to the subject.
11. A method of tailoring a therapeutic for an individual subject having an allergy, the method comprising the steps of:
providing a formulation network that depicts available alternatives of dosage forms and interchangeabilities of functionally equivalent inactive ingredients,
selecting a first drug formulation from within the formulation network wherein the first drug formulation comprises an active pharmaceutical ingredient and at least one inactive ingredient,
identifying at least one ingredient that is an allergen to the individual subject from among the at least one inactive ingredient in the first drug formulation, and selecting and administering a second drug formulation from within the formulation network wherein the second drug formulation comprises the active pharmaceutical ingredient and does not comprise the at least one allergen
12 A method of tailoring a pharmacokinetic or metabolic profile of a therapeutic for an individual subject, the method comprising the steps of:
a) providing a formulation network that depicts available alternatives of dosage forms and interchangeabilities of functionally equivalent inactive ingredients,
b) selecting a first drug formulation from within the formulation network wherein the first drug formulation comprises an active pharmaceutical ingredient and at least one inactive ingredient, and
c) selecting and administering a second drug formulation from within the formulation network wherein the second drug formulation comprises the active pharmaceutical ingredient and at least one inactive ingredient that contributes to the pharmacokinetic or metabolic profile of the second drug formulation, and wherein the second drug formulation possesses a superior pharmacokinetic or metabolic profile with respect to the first drug formulation
13 A method of determining the total excipient burden in a subject ingesting multiple drugs, the method comprising:
a) Identifying all excipients in the multiple drugs being Ingested by the subject; and b) quantifying the total amount of each excipient being ingested by the subject during a specified timeframe.
14 A method of identifying adverse reaction-associated inactive ingredients (ARAils) in a subject ingesting multiple drugs, the method comprising:
a) identifying all excipients in the multiple drugs being ingested by the subject, b) quantifying the total amount of each excipient being ingested by the subject to determine an excipient burden,
c) identifying one or more symptoms experienced by the subject during
administration of the multiple drugs, and
d) correlating the excipient burden to the one or more symptoms to establish a potential causal relationship.
15 A method of selecting a therapeutic for a subject with irritable bowel syndrome, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, or dyspepsia, comprising: a) identifying a first therapeutic formulation, wherein the first therapeutic formulation comprises an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and one or more excipients;
b) identifying an adverse reaction-associated inactive ingredient (ARAM) from among the one or more excipients in the first therapeutic formulation by determining that the ARAM provokes an adverse reaction in the subject's gastrointestinal (Gl) tract; and
c) selecting a second therapeutic formulation comprising the API of the first therapeutic formulation and one or more excipients, wherein the one or more excipients of the second therapeutic formulation comprise a reduced amount of the ARAII in the first therapeutic formulation.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of the second therapeutic formulation to the subject.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the second therapeutic formulation is administered orally.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the API is selected from the group consisting of a proton pump inhibitor, a histamine 2 blocker, and an irritable bowel syndrome treatment.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the API is selected from the group consisting of omeprazole, lansoprazole, dexlansoprazo!e, rabeprazole, pantoprazole, esomeprazole, famotidine, cimetidine, nizatidine, ranitidine, hyoscyamine sulfate, dicyclomine, lubiprostone, linaciotide, aiosetron, rifaximin, and amitriptyline.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the amount of the ARAII in the second therapeutic formulation is less than 70% of the amount of the ARAII in the first therapeutic formulation.
21. The method of claim 15, wherein the ARAII is eliminated from the second therapeutic formulation.
22. The method of claim 15, wherein the ARAII is selected from the group consisting of Ailura Red, aspartame, banana, benzoic acid, benzyl alcohol, carboxymethy!ce!iulose calcium, casein, castor oil, cetyl alcohol, starch, corn syrup, Brilliant Blue, indigo carmine, erythrosine, Sunset Yellow FCF, tartrazine, gelatin, glucosamine, lactose, mannitol, milk, new coccine, parabens, peanut oil, PEG castor oils, poloxamer, PEG, povidone, propylene glycol, saccharine, sesame oil, sodium benzoate, soybean oil, starch wheat, stearyl alcohol, sucrose, sodium metabisulfite, and vanilla.
23. The method of claim 15, wherein the ARAM is selected from the group consisting of a fermentable oligosaccharide, a disaccharide, a monosaccharide, and a polyol (FGDMAP).
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the FODMAP is selected from the group consisting of lactose, mannitol, and polydextrose.
25. A method of reducing the total adverse reaction-associated inactive ingredient (ARAN) excipient burden in a subject being administered multiple drugs, the method comprising:
a) identifying a set of therapeutics being administered to the subject;
b) identifying excipients and APIs in the set of therapeutics being administered to the subject;
c) identifying an excipient being administered to the subject as the ARAII in the subject;
d) quantifying the total amount of the ARAII being administered to the subject to determine a first ARAII excipient burden; and
e) selecting a new set of therapeutics wherein the new set of therapeutics comprises the APIs of the first set of therapeutics and wherein the new set of therapeutics comprises a second ARAII excipient burden that is iess than the first ARAN excipient burden.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the method further comprises administering the new set of therapeutics to the subject.
27. The method of claim 25, wherein selection of the new set of therapeutics is performed using a formulation network that depicts available alternatives of dosage forms and Interchangeabilities of functionally equivalent excipients, wherein
the formulation network comprises at least two nodes;
each node corresponds to a unique therapeutic formulation comprising an API and one or more excipients; and
any two nodes corresponding to two interchangeable therapeutic formulations comprising the same API are connected to each other with an edge
28. A method of designing a therapeutic formulation comprising:
a) identifying a first therapeutic formulation comprising a first API and one or more excipients, wherein the first therapeutic formulation has previously been administered to a human; b) identifying a second API that is structurally similar to the first API; and c) combining the one or more excipients of the first therapeutic formulation with the second API to arrive at a second therapeutic formulation.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the one or more excipients do not comprise an
ARAM.
30. The method of claim 28, wherein the second API has previously been administered to a human in at least one therapeutic formulation comprising an ARAM.
31. The method of claim 28, wherein the second therapeutic formulation is not commercially available.
32. The method of claim 2, wherein the first set of excipients and the second set of excipients have previously been administered to a human.
33. The method of claim 15, wherein the second therapeutic is administered in a therapeutic amount for the treatment of a disorder that is not irritable bowel syndrome, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, or dyspepsia.
34. A method of inhibiting UGT2B7 activity, comprising contacting a cell having UGT2B7 activity with gum rosin.
35. A method of inhibiting UGT2B7 activity, comprising contacting a ceil having UGT2B7 activity with abietic acid.
36. A method of treating a disease or disorder in a subject in need thereof comprising co administering to the subject:
an effective amount of an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API), wherein the API undergoes UGT2B7-mediated g!ucuronidation; and
a UGT2B7 inhibitor selected from the group consisting of gum rosin and abietic acid.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the UGT2B7 inhibitor and the API are co administered in a formulation wherein the UGT2B7 inhibitor and the API are mixed together.
38. The method of claim 36, wherein the UGT2B7 inhibitor is not used as a coating.
39. The method of claim 36, wherein the API is selected from the group consisting of: hydromorphone, iosartan, diclofenac, etodolac, flurbiprofen, ibuprofen, naproxen, suprofen, mitiglinide, za!toprofen, ambrisentan, troglitazone, morphine, indomefhacin, mycophenolate mofetil, ezetimibe, mycophenolic acid, vadimezan, epirubicin, tapentadol, pitavastatin, siiodosin, zidovudine, lovastatin, simvastatin, oxazepam, carbamazepine, codeine, fiuvastatin, valproic acid, dapaglifiozin, enasidenib, naimefene, acemetacin, ertugliflozin, artenimol, !abeta!ol, tamoxifen, carvedi!o!, ketorolac, dabigatran etexiiate, dexibuprofen, gemfibrozil, anastrozole, and !oxoprofen.
40. A method of reducing the dose of a UGB2B7-sensitive API in a patient population being treated with the API comprising co-administering to the patient population:
a UGT2B7 inhibitor selected from the group consisting of gum rosin and abietic acid; and
an effective amount of the API, wherein the effective amount of the API being co administered is lower than the effective amount required to induce the same therapeutic effect in the absence of the UGT2B7 inhibitor.
41. A method of inhibiting P-glycoprotein activity, comprising contacting a ceil having Pg!ycoprotein activity with vitamin A palmitate.
42. The method of claim 41 , wherein the cell overexpresses P-glycoprotein.
43. A method of treating cancer in a subject in need thereof comprising co-administering to the subject:
an effective amount of one or more chemotherapeutic agents; and
vitamin A palmitate.
44. The method of claim 43, wherein the cancer is characterized by P-glycoprotein overexpression.
45. The method of claim 43, wherein the cancer is multidrug-resistant cancer.
46. The method of claim 43, wherein the chemotherapeutic is selected from the group consisting of alkylating agents, tumor necrosis factors, intercalators, microtubulin inhibitors, topisomerase inhibitors, and tyrosine kinase inhibitors.
46. The method of claim 43, wherein the one or more chemotherapeutic agents have increased ceil permeability when co-administered with vitamin A palmitate compared to administration of the one or more chemotherapeutic agents without vitamin A palmitate.
47. A pharmaceutical composition comprising:
an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API), wherein the API undergoes UGT2B7- mediated glucuronidation; and
a UGT2B7 inhibitor selected from the group consisting of gum rosin and abietic acid.
48. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 47, wherein the API and the UGT2B7 inhibitor are co-formuiated as a mixture.
49. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 47, wherein the UGT2B7 inhibitor is not used as a coating.
50. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a chemotherapeutic agent and vitamin A palmitate.
51. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 50, wherein the chemotherapeutic agent is a P-gp substrate.
</claims>
</document>
