<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/24,G01N33/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF JOHANNESBURG
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDREW, RICHARD CHARLES
CONNELL, SIMON HENRY
COOK, MARTIN NKULULEKO HOGAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64316959
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR HIGH SPEED DETECTION OF DIAMONDS
</title>

<abstract>
This invention relates to a method of or system for detecting presence of diamond in an object. The method comprises receiving classification data associated with photons emitted from object as a result of positron annihilation due to irradiation of the object with photons of a predetermined energy at which giant dipole resonance (GDR) occurs due to a nuclear reaction between the photons and carbon. The method then comprises the step of determining whether or not the object is potentially a diamond or diamondiferous by processing the received classification data with a trained machine-based learning classifier. The system typically implements the method described herein.
</abstract>

<claims>
1 . A method of detecting presence of diamond in an object, the method comprising:
receiving classification data associated with photons emitted from object as a result of positron annihilation due to irradiation of the object with photons of a predetermined energy at which giant dipole resonance (GDR) occurs due to a nuclear reaction between the photons and carbon, wherein the photons emitted are detected by a suitable detector arrangement; and
determining whether or not the object is potentially a diamond or diamondiferous by processing the received classification data with a trained machine-based learning classifier, wherein the trained machine-based learning classifier is trained at least with computer simulated classification data from a computer implemented simulator which simulates at least diamonds or diamondiferous objects.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1 , wherein the computer implemented simulator is configured to simulate diamonds or diamondiferous objects and barren objects; and wherein the computer implemented simulator is configured to simulate photon emissions from the simulated objects as a result of simulated positron annihilation due to simulated irradiation of the simulated objects with photons of a predetermined energy at which giant dipole resonance (GDR) occurs due to nuclear reactions between the photons and carbon, wherein the computer simulated classification data is associated with simulated photons emitted from the simulated objects.
3. A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the computer implemented simulator is configured to simulate a detector arrangement configured to detect the simulated photon emissions, wherein the computer simulated classification data comprises simulated output data from the simulated detector arrangement.
4. A method as claimed in either claim 2 or 3, wherein the computer implemented simulator is configured to simulate travelling of simulated objects in a simulated object stream.
5. A method as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the method comprises prior steps of:
receiving experimental classification data from diamond or diamondiferous test objects and barren test objects;
receiving physical property data corresponding to one or both of quantitative and qualitative aspects of the diamond or diamondiferous test objects and barren test objects; and
using one or both of the received experimental classification data and physical property data to validate the simulations generated by the computer implemented simulator by benchmarking the same to one or both of the received experimental and physical property data.
6. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the method comprises a prior step of training a machine-based learning classifier with computer simulated classification data generated by the computer implemented simulator to generate the trained machine-based learning classifier which is used to determine whether or not there is a strong likelihood that the object is potentially a diamond or diamondiferous.
7. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the method comprises:
classifying any potential diamond or diamondiferous object by way of the trained machine-based learning classifier;
storing information indicative of said classification in a memory storage device; and
sorting objects based on the classification.
8. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the method comprises:
irradiating the object with photons of a predetermined energy at which giant dipole resonance (GDR) occurs due to a nuclear reaction between the photons and carbon;
detecting back-to-back co-linear and co-incident gamma ray photons of a predetermined energy level emitted from the irradiated object by way of the detector arrangement, wherein the step of detecting is after a predetermined period of time after the step of irradiating; wherein the method comprises detecting photons having an energy level of approximately 51 1 keV and rejecting photons not having the energy level of approximately 51 1 keV.
9. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the method comprises detecting the presence of diamond in an object moving in an object stream within an object sorting system defining a path of travel of objects, wherein the method comprises separating from other objects those objects which are determined potentially to be diamond or diamondiferous in an on-line fashion.
10. A system for detecting presence of diamond in an object, the system comprising:
a memory storage device; and
one or more processors configured to:
receive classification data associated with photons emitted from object as a result of positron annihilation due to irradiation of the object with photons of a predetermined energy at which giant dipole resonance (GDR) occurs due to a nuclear reaction between the photons and carbon, wherein the photons emitted are detected by a suitable detector arrangement; and
determine whether or not the object is potentially a diamond or diamondiferous by processing the received classification data with a trained machine-based learning classifier, wherein the trained machinebased learning classifier is trained at least with computer simulated classification data from a computer implemented simulator which simulates at least diamonds or diamondiferous objects.
1 1 . A system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the one or more processors is configured to implement the computer implemented simulator, wherein the computer implemented simulator is configured to simulate diamonds or diamondiferous object, and wherein the computer implemented simulator is configured to simulate photon emissions from the simulated objects as a result of simulated positron annihilation due to simulated irradiation of the simulated objects with photons of a predetermined energy at which giant dipole resonance (GDR) occurs due to nuclear reactions between the photons and carbon, wherein the computer simulated classification data is associated with simulated photons emitted from the simulated objects.
12. A system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the system comprises a sorter configured to sort objects which are diamonds or diamondiferous from those that are barren.
13. A system as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 12, wherein the one or more processors is configured to classify any potential diamond or diamondiferous object by way of the trained machine-based learning classifier; and store information indicative of said classification in the memory storage device,
14. A system as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein the system comprises the detector arrangement; and wherein the detector arrangement comprises a pair of detector arrays oriented parallel to each other and having sensing axes transverse to the direction of travel of the belt.
15. A system as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 14, wherein the system comprises an irradiator configured to irradiate the object with photons of a predetermined energy at which giant dipole resonance (GDR) occurs due to a nuclear reaction between the photons and carbon, wherein the detector arrangement is configured to detecting back-to-back co-linear and co-incident gamma ray photons of a predetermined energy level emitted from the irradiated object by way of the detector arrangement.
16 . A method for auditing output from a diamond mine, wherein the method comprises:
detecting, at a diamond mine, presence of diamond in an object according to the method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9;
storing data associated with objects determined to be potentially a diamond or diamondiferous; and
comparing the stored data with yield data from the diamond mine indicative of the yield of diamonds from the diamond mine.
17. A system for auditing output from a diamond mine, wherein the system comprises:
a memory storage device; and
one or more processors configured to:
detect presence of diamond in an object using the system as claimed in any of claims 10 to 15;
storing data associated with objects determined to be potentially a diamond or diamondiferous; and
comparing the stored data with yield data from the diamond mine indicative of the yield of diamonds from the diamond mine.
18. A computer-readable medium storing computer executable instructions which when executed on one or more processors cause said processors to:
receive classification data associated with photons emitted from object as a result of positron annihilation due to irradiation of the object with photons of a predetermined energy at which giant dipole resonance (GDR) occurs due to a nuclear reaction between the photons and carbon, wherein the photons emitted are detected by a suitable detector arrangement; and
determine whether or not the object is potentially a diamond or diamondiferous by processing the received classification data with a trained machine-based learning classifier.
19. A method of training a machine-based learning classifier with computer simulated classification data generated by the computer implemented simulator to generate the trained machine-based learning classifier as defined in any one of claims 1 to 9 which is used to determine whether or not there is a strong likelihood that the object is potentially a diamond or diamondiferous.
20. A system for training a machine-based learning classifier, wherein the system comprises:
a memory storage device; and one or more processors configured to:
train a machine-based learning classifier with computer simulated classification data generated by the computer implemented simulator to generate a trained machine-based learning classifier as defined in any one of the claims 10 to 15 which is used to determine whether or not there is a strong likelihood that the object is potentially a diamond or diamondiferous.
</claims>
</document>
