<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/0481,G06Q10/10,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
FAULKNER, JASON THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69104836
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT AGENTS FOR MANAGING DATA ASSOCIATED WITH THREE-DIMENSIONAL OBJECTS
</title>

<abstract>
The techniques disclosed herein improve the efficiency of a system by providing intelligent agents for managing data associated with objects that are displayed within mixed-reality and virtual-reality collaboration environments. Individual agents are configured to collect, analyze, and store data associated with individual objects in a shared view. The agents can identify real-world objects and virtual objects discussed in a meeting, collect information about each object and generate recommendations for each object based on the collected information. The recommendations can suggest modifications to the objects, provide resources for obtaining or modifying the objects, and provide actionable information allowing users to reach a consensus regarding an object. The data can be shared between different communication sessions without requiring users to manually store and present a collection of content for each object. The intelligent agents can also persist through different communication sessions to enhance user engagement and improve productivity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising:
receiving, at a computing device, sensor data generated by a depth map sensor and an image sensor, the sensor data comprising image data of real-world objects and depth map data defining a three-dimensional model of the real-world objects positioned within a real-world environment;
receiving model data defining virtual objects for display within a view of the realworld objects and the real-world environment;
generating data defining an agent instance and an associated database for individual virtual objects and individual real-world objects of interest that are identified by an analysis of the model data, depth map data, and the image data;
monitoring communication data of a plurality of users for identifying keywords, descriptions, or parameters to be stored within individual databases associated with the individual virtual objects or the individual real-world objects;
generating a display of one or more recommendations associated with a rendering of the individual virtual objects and a view of at least one real-world object, wherein the one or more recommendations include at least one of a modification to at least one virtual object comprising at least one new parameter, a new virtual object positioned over the at least one real-world object, or an annotation recommending a modification to the at least one real-world object, wherein data defining the recommendations is persistently stored for access by multiple communication sessions.
2. The method of Claim 1, wherein the real-world objects of interest are identified by:
determining a level of interaction of input signals received from input devices with respect to the at least one real-world object of the real-world objects;
determining that the level of interaction exceeds a threshold; and
in response to determining that the level of interaction exceeds the threshold, determining the at least one real-world object as one of the individual real-world objects of interest.
3. The method of Claim 1, wherein the real-world objects of interest are selected by:
determining that a level of movement of the at least one real-world object of the real-world objects exceeds a threshold;
in response to determining that the level of movement of the at least one real-world object exceeds the threshold, determining the at least one real-world object as one of the individual real-world objects of interest.
4. The method of Claim 1, wherein the real-world objects of interest are selected by:
determining a level of change with respect to at least one of a temperature, a color, or a shape of the at least one real-world exceeds a threshold;
in response to determining that the level of change with respect to at least one of a temperature, a color, or a shape exceeds the threshold, determining the at least one realworld object as one of the individual real-world objects of interest.
5. The method of Claim 1, wherein the real-world objects of interest are selected by:
determining that a physical property of the at least one real-world object matches one or more predetermined physical properties;
in response to determining that the physical property of the at least one real-world object matches the one or more predetermined physical properties, determining the at least one real-world object as one of the individual real-world objects of interest.
6. The method of Claim 1, further comprising:
generating a query utilizing the keywords, descriptions, or parameters associated with the individual virtual objects or the individual real-world objects;
sending the query to a computing resource configured to receive queries and configured to return supplemental data based on the query;
obtaining the supplemental data based on the query from the computing resource; and
providing the supplemental data within the recommendations associated with the rendering of the individual virtual objects and the view of at least one real-world object.
7. The method of Claim 1, further comprising
generating a query utilizing a specification requirement stored in a database associated with the at least one real-world object;
sending the query to a computing resource configured to receive queries and configured to return supplemental data based on the query;
obtaining the supplemental data based on the query from the computing resource, wherein the supplemental data defines a model of a new object meeting the specification requirement; and
providing the supplemental data within the recommendations, wherein the supplemental data causes a display of a rendering of the new object, wherein the new object is positioned over at least a portion of the at least one real-world object.
8. The method of Claim 1, further comprising:
associating a priority with individual recommendations, wherein a priority associated with an individual recommendation increases as a number of user interactions referencing a recommendation increases, wherein the display of the one or more recommendations includes a ranked list of individual recommendations based on individual priorities assigned to each of the individual recommendations.
9. A system comprising:
one or more data processing units; and
a computer-readable medium having encoded thereon computer-executable instructions to cause the one or more data processing units to
receive, at the system, sensor data generated by a depth map sensor, the sensor data comprising depth map data defining a three-dimensional model of real-world objects within a real-world environment;
receive model data defining virtual objects for display within a view of the realworld environment;
generate data defining an agent instance and a database associated with at least one real-world object that is identified by an analysis of the depth map data;
monitor user interaction data of a plurality of users from one or more input devices for identifying a parameter to be stored within individual databases associated with the individual real-world objects;
generate a display of one or more recommendations associated with a rendering of the individual virtual objects and a view of at least one real-world object, wherein the recommendations include an image displaying a modification for conforming at least one part of the at least one real-world object with the parameter.
10. The system of Claim 9, wherein data defining the recommendations is persistently stored for access by multiple communication sessions.
11. The system of Claim 9, wherein the agent instance and the database are generated during a first communication session associated with the plurality of users, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more data processing units to:
store data defining the data defining the recommendations within the database associated with the at least one real-world object; and
determine that a second communication session has started; in response to determining that a second communication session has started, communicate agent data defining the agent instance and the database to one or more computing devices associated with the second communication session.
12. The system of Claim 9, wherein the agent instance and the database are generated during a first communication session associated with the plurality of users, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more data processing units to:
determine that at least one user of a second communication session referenced the at least one real-world object;
in response to determining that at least one user of the second communication session referenced the at least one real-world object, communicate agent data defining the agent instance and the database to one or more computing devices associated with the second communication session.
13. The system of Claim 9, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more data processing units to:
determine a level of change with respect to at least one of a temperature, a color, or a shape of the at least one real-world exceeds a threshold; and
in response to determining that the level of change with respect to at least one of a temperature, a color, or a shape exceeds the threshold, generate data defining the agent instance and the database associated with the at least one real-world object.
14. The system of Claim 9, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more data processing units to:
determine that a physical property of the at least one real-world object matches one or more predetermined physical properties; and
in response to determining that the physical property of the at least one real-world object matches the one or more predetermined physical properties, generate data defining the agent instance and the database associated with the at least one real-world object.
15. The system of Claim 9, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more data processing units to:
determine that a level of movement of the at least one real-world object of the realworld objects exceeds a threshold; and
in response to determining that the level of movement of the at least one real-world object exceeds the threshold, generate data defining the agent instance and the database associated with the at least one real-world object.
</claims>
</document>
