<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N5/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ELEKTA AB (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
VON WÛRTEMBERG, Klas
RIAD, Stella
TILLY, David
TILLY, Nina
KIMSTRAND, Peter
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70740595
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DOSE GUIDED REAL-TIME ADAPTIVE RADIOTHERAPY
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for adjusting radiotherapy treatment for a patient in real-time are provided. The techniques include determining a patient anatomy at a first time within a given radiotherapy treatment fraction after a radiotherapy treatment dose has been delivered by a radiotherapy device; retrieving a reference patient anatomy for the given radiotherapy treatment fraction that indicates a prescribed dose parameter to be delivered within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction; comparing the patient anatomy at the first time with the reference patient anatomy during the given radiotherapy treatment fraction; and based on the comparison of the patient anatomy at the first time with the reference patient anatomy, adjusting a parameter of the radiotherapy device to change an amount of radiotherapy treatment dose delivered at a second time, following the first time, within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction in accordance with the prescribed dose parameter to be delivered within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for adjusting radiotherapy treatment for a patient in real-time, the method comprising:
determining, by processor circuitry, a patient anatomy at a first time within a given radiotherapy treatment fraction after a radiotherapy treatment dose has been delivered by a radiotherapy device;
retrieving, by the processor circuitry, a reference patient anatomy for the given radiotherapy treatment fraction that indicates a prescribed dose parameter to be delivered within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction;
comparing, by the processor circuitry, the patient anatomy at the first time with the reference patient anatomy during the given radiotherapy treatment fraction; and
based on the comparison of the patient anatomy at the first time with the reference patient anatomy, adjusting, by the processor circuitry, a parameter of the radiotherapy device to change an amount of radiotherapy treatment dose delivered at a second time, following the first time, within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction in accordance with the prescribed dose parameter to be delivered within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the parameter of the radiotherapy device is adjusted while maintaining the prescribed dose parameter to be delivered within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction, wherein the prescribed dose parameter comprises at least one of a prescribed fraction dose to be delivered to a target within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction, a maximum dose delivered to an organ at risk within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction, or a maximum dose delivered to a relative volume of the organ at risk, further comprising adjusting the parameter of the radiotherapy device throughout the given radiotherapy treatment fraction such that an aggregate amount of radiotherapy treatment dose delivered at multiple times within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction corresponds to the prescribed dose parameter.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: determining a first amount of overlap between a tumor in the patient and an organ at risk, laterally or in depth, based on the determined patient anatomy at the first time, the first amount of overlap indicating a first quantity of radiation exposure to the tumor relative to the organ at risk; and
determining a reference amount of overlap between the tumor in the patient and the organ at risk laterally or in depth based on the reference patient anatomy, the reference amount of overlap indicating a reference quantity of radiation exposure to the tumor relative to the organ at risk.
4. The method of claim 3 further comprising:
determining that the first amount is less than the reference amount; and increasing the amount of radiotherapy treatment dose delivered at the second time in response to determining that the first amount is less than the reference amount.
5. The method of claim 3 further comprising:
determining that the first amount is greater than the reference amount; and
decreasing the amount of radiotherapy treatment dose delivered at the second time in response to determining that the first amount is greater than the reference amount.
6. The method of claim 3 further comprising:
determining a relationship between of the first amount to the reference amount; and
modifying the amount of radiotherapy treatment dose delivered at the second time as a function of the relationship between the first amount to the reference amount.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising:
determining a first distance between a border of a tumor in the patient and an organ at risk based on the determined patient anatomy at the first time; determining a second distance between the border the tumor in the patient and the organ at risk based on the reference patient anatomy; and
increasing the amount of radiotherapy treatment dose delivered at the second time based on a deviation between the first and second distances.
8. The method of claim 1 further comprising:
determining a first distance between a border of a tumor in the patient and an organ at risk based on the determined patient anatomy at the first time; determining a second distance between the border the tumor in the patient and the organ at risk based on the reference patient anatomy; and
decreasing the amount of radiotherapy treatment dose delivered at the second time based on a deviation between the first and second distances.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the prescribed dose parameter comprises a dose amount in a given time or a gantry rotation speed, and wherein adjusting the parameter of the radiotherapy device comprises:
generating a dose amount per time factor as a function of a dose amount per time parameter and an amount of overlap parameter; and
adjusting the dose amount or the gantry rotation speed by the dose amount per time factor.
10. The method of claim 9 further comprising comparing a result of the comparison of the patient anatomy at the first time with the reference patient anatomy with the amount of overlap parameter, wherein the dose amount is increased when the result is greater than the amount of overlap parameter, and wherein the dose is decreased when the result is less than the amount of overlap parameter.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the dose amount per time factor and the amount of overlap parameter are optimized during planning before starting the given radiotherapy treatment fraction or during the given radiotherapy treatment fraction.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein at least one of multi-leaf collimator (MLC) setting, a jaw collimator setting, the dose amount per time parameter, or the amount of overlap parameter is computed based on solving an optimization problem that balances amount of radiotherapy dose delivery to a tumor and at least one of the amount of radiotherapy dose delivery to an organ at risk or the amount of radiotherapy dose delivery to healthy tissue.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the parameter of the radiotherapy device comprises a multi -leaf collimator (MLC) and a jaw collimator setting, and wherein adjusting the parameter comprises:
generating a collimator adjustment amount based on an overlap amount computed as a function of an amount of sparing of dose delivery to normal tissue relative to a dose delivered to a target; and
adjusting the MLC and jaw setting of the radiotherapy device by the collimator adjustment amount.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein adjusting the collimator setting comprises modifying positions of the jaws and the leaves of the MLC to change a shape of the collimator opening, the positions being modified based on the collimator adjustment amount, wherein a position of one of the leaves of the MLC is adjusted by a different amount than a position of another one of the leaves of the MLC.
15. The method of claim 1 further comprising:
computing a level of accuracy of the determined patient anatomy at the first time; and
modifying the radiotherapy device parameter based on the computed level of accuracy.
16. The method of claim 1 further comprising:
estimating an amount of dose that remains to be delivered within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction, wherein the parameter of the radiotherapy device is adjusted based on the estimated amount of dose that remains to be delivered.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the radiotherapy treatment dose is delivered to a given region in the patient anatomy at the first time, further comprising:
determining whether the given region in the patient anatomy will be irradiated by the radiotherapy device at another time within the given
radiotherapy treatment fraction; and
modifying the amount of radiotherapy treatment dose delivered at the second time as a function of the determination of whether the given region in the patient anatomy will be irradiated by the radiotherapy device at another time within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction.
18. The method of claim 17 further comprising modifying the amount based on whether the another time is closer to a start of the radiotherapy treatment fraction or an end of the given radiotherapy treatment fraction.
19. The method of claim 1 further comprising re-ordering segments in a radiotherapy treatment plan to change times when different regions of the patient anatomy are irradiated within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction, wherein: the radiotherapy treatment plan identifies a first region of the patient anatomy to irradiate at a third time within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction and a second region of the patient anatomy to irradiate at a fourth time within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction; and
after re-ordering the segments, the radiotherapy device irradiates the first region of the patient anatomy at the fourth time within the given
radiotherapy treatment fraction and the second region of the patient anatomy at the third time within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction.
20. The method of claim 1 further comprising adding one or more segments in a radiotherapy treatment plan to perform re-scanning and increase times when one or more regions of the patient anatomy are irradiated within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction or to irradiate regions of the patient anatomy that are additional and different from regions specified to be irradiated in the radiotherapy treatment plan.
21. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising non-transitory computer-readable instructions, the computer-readable instructions comprising instructions for performing operations comprising:
determining a patient anatomy at a first time within a given
radiotherapy treatment fraction after a radiotherapy treatment dose has been delivered by a radiotherapy device;
retrieving a reference patient anatomy for the given radiotherapy treatment fraction that indicates a prescribed dose parameter to be delivered within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction;
comparing the patient anatomy at the first time with the reference patient anatomy during the given radiotherapy treatment fraction; and
based on the comparison of the patient anatomy at the first time with the reference patient anatomy, adjusting a parameter of the radiotherapy device to change an amount of radiotherapy treatment dose delivered at a second time, following the first time, within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction in accordance with the prescribed dose parameter to be delivered within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction.
22. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 21, wherein the operations further comprise:
determining a first amount of overlap between a tumor in a patient and an organ at risk based on the determined patient anatomy at the first time, the first amount of overlap indicating a first quantity of radiation exposure to the tumor relative to the organ at risk; and
determining a reference amount of overlap between the tumor in the patient and the organ at risk based on the reference patient anatomy, the reference amount of overlap indicating a reference quantity of radiation exposure to the tumor relative to the organ at risk.
23. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 22, wherein the operations further comprise:
determining that the first amount is less than the reference amount; and increasing the amount of radiotherapy treatment dose delivered at the second time in response to determining that the first amount is less than the reference amount.
24. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 22, wherein the operations further comprise:
determining that the first amount is greater than the reference amount; and
decreasing the amount of radiotherapy treatment dose delivered at the second time in response to determining that the first amount is greater than the reference amount.
25. A system comprising:
a memory for storing instructions; and
one or more processors for executing the instructions stored in the memory for performing operations comprising:
determining a patient anatomy at a first time within a given radiotherapy treatment fraction after a radiotherapy treatment dose has been delivered by a radiotherapy device;
retrieving a reference patient anatomy for the given
radiotherapy treatment fraction that indicates a prescribed dose parameter to be delivered within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction;
comparing the patient anatomy at the first time with the reference patient anatomy during the given radiotherapy treatment fraction; and
based on the comparison of the patient anatomy at the first time with the reference patient anatomy, adjusting a parameter of the radiotherapy device to change an amount of radiotherapy treatment dose delivered at a second time, following the first time, within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction in accordance with the prescribed dose parameter to be delivered within the given radiotherapy treatment fraction.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the operations further comprise:
determining a first amount of overlap between a tumor in a patient and an organ at risk based on the determined patient anatomy at the first time, the first amount of overlap indicating a first quantity of radiation exposure to the tumor relative to the organ at risk; and
determining a reference amount of overlap between the tumor in the patient and the organ at risk based on the reference patient anatomy, the reference amount of overlap indicating a reference quantity of radiation exposure to the tumor relative to the organ at risk.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the operations further comprise:
determining that the first amount is less than the reference amount; and increasing the amount of radiotherapy treatment dose delivered at the second time in response to determining that the first amount is less than the reference amount.
28. The system of claim 26, wherein the operations further comprise:
determining that the first amount is greater than the reference amount; and
decreasing the amount of radiotherapy treatment dose delivered at the second time in response to determining that the first amount is greater than the reference amount.
</claims>
</document>
