<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EBAY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOUDET, CHRISTOPHE
KIAPOUR, MOHAMMADHADI
RAMAKRISHNAN, NANDINI
ZAW, FRED AYE JR.
ZHENG, SHUAI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68296652
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING PERSONALIZED BANNER IMAGES USING MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
A machine is configured to generate in real time personalized online banner images for users based on data pertaining to user behavior in relation to an image of a product. For example, the machine receives a user selection indicating one or more data features associated with the user. The one or more data features include a data feature pertaining to user behavior in relation to an image of a product. The machine generates, using a machine learning algorithm, a data representation of the machine learning algorithm based on the one or more data features including the data feature pertaining to user behavior in relation to the image of the product. The data representation includes one or more data features pertaining to one or more characteristics of online banner images. The machine generates an online banner image for the user based on the data representation.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is;
1. A method comprising: receiving a user selection indicating one or more data features associated with the user, the one or more data features including a data feature pertaining to user beha vior in relation to an image of a product;
generating, using a machine learning algorithm, a data representation of the machine learning algorithm based on the one or more data features including the data feature pertaining to user behavior in relation to the image of the product, the data representation including one or more data features pertaining to one or more characteristics of online banner images, the generating of the data representation being performed using one or more hardware processors; and generating an online banner image for the user based on the data
representation.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: causing display of the online banner image in a user interface of a client device associated with the user
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving, from the client device, an indication of an input;
updating the data representation of the machine learning algorithm based on adding an additional feature that indicates the input; and
updating the online banner image for the user based on the updated data representation.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the input is a selection of the online banner image.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the data representation of the machine learning algorithm is a vector of data features, the vector including the one or more data features associated with the user, the vector further including one or more data features associated with a look-and-feel of the online banner image.
6 The method of claim 1, wherein the online banner image includes a product image that is selectable via the user interface, and wherein a selection, via the user interface, of the product image results in causing display, in the user interface, of a product listing associated with a product depicted in the product image
7 The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more data features include a
feature indicating a product previously searched by the user.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the online banner image for the user based on the data representation includes: identifying a template data feature included in the data representation of the machine learning algorithm, the template data feature representing one or more structural elements of the online banner image; and
generating the online banner image to include the one or more structural elements represented by the template data feature.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the one or more structural elements included in the online banner image comprise at least one background color associated with at least one portion of the online banner image, at least one
alphanumeric string that is included in the at least one portion of the online banner image, and at least one product image associated with a product included in an inventory of products available for purchase.
10. The method of claim 2, wherein the online banner image is caused to be displayed in the user interface of the client device based on receiving one or more login credentials from the client device.
1 1. A system comprising:
one or more hardware processors; and
a machine-readable mediu for storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more hardware processors, cause the one or more hardware processors to perform operations comprising: receiving a user selection indicating one or more data features associated with the user, the one or more data features including a data feature pertaining to user behavior in relation to an image of a product;
generating, using a machine learning algorithm, a data representation of the machine learning algorithm based on the one or more data features including the data feature pertaining to user behavior in relation to the image of the product, the data representation including one or more data features pertaining to one or more characteristics of online banner images; and
generating an online banner image for the user based on the data
representation.
12. The system of claim 1 1, wherein the operations further comprise: causing display of the online banner image in a user interface of a client device associated with the user.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, from the client device, an indication of an input;
updating the data representation of the machine learning algorithm based on adding an additional feature that indicates the input; and
updating the online banner image for the user based on the updated data representation.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the input is a selection of the online banner image.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the data representation of the machine
learning algorithm is a vector of data features, the vector including the one or more data features associated with the user, the vector further including one or more data features associated with a look-and-feel of the online banner image.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the online banner image includes a product image that is selectable via the user interface, and wherein a selection, via the user interface, of the product image results in causing display, in the user interface, of a product listing associated with a product depicted in the product image.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more data features include a feature indicating a product previously searched by the user.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the generating of the online banner image for the user based on the data representation includes: identifying a template data feature included in the data representation of the machine learning algorithm, the template data feature representing one or more structural elements of the online banner image; and
generating the online banner image to include the one or more structural elements represented by the template data feature.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the one or more structural elements
included in the online banner image comprise at least one background color associated with at least one portion of the online banner image, at least one alphanumeric string that is included in the at least one portion of the online banner image, and at least one product image associated with a product included in an inventory of products available for purchase.
20 A machine-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by one or more hardware processors, cause the one or more hardware processors to perform operations comprising:
receiving a user selection indicating one or more data features associated with the user, the one or more data features including a data feature pertaining to user behavior in relation to an image of a product;
generating, using a machine learning algorithm, a data representation of the machine learning algorithm based on the one or more data features including the data feature pertaining to user behavior in relation to the image of the product, the data representation including one or more data features pertaining to one or more characteristics of online banner images; and
generating an online banner image for the user based on the data
representation.
</claims>
</document>
