<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/574
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIFERIS, KONSTANTINOS
MA SISI
UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA
WANG JINHUA
WINTERHOFF, BORIS JAN NILS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALIFERIS, KONSTANTINOS
MA SISI
WANG JINHUA
WINTERHOFF, BORIS JAN NILS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68699511
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS FOR PREDICTING A RESPONSE TO BEVACIZUMAB OR PLATINUM-BASED CHEMOTHERAPY OR BOTH IN PATIENTS WITH OVARIAN CANCER
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure describes methods of predicting the response of a patient with ovarian cancer to platinum-based chemotherapy and/or treatment with bevacizumab using clinical and molecular tumor characteristics in patients, methods of treating patients with ovarian cancer, and kits for performing all or part of the methods described herein. This disclosure also describes methods that include determining a prediction of an outcome for a patient having ovarian cancer based on one or more signatures and patient test data comprising clinical data, gene expression data, or both.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for treating a patient suffering from ovarian cancer following removal of a tumor, the method comprising:
determining whether the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of bevacizumab, wherein such determination comprises:
determining the patient's gene expression level of microfibril associated protein 2 (MFAP2); and
determining the patient's gene expression level of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA); and
if the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of bevacizumab, administering bevacizumab.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of bevacizumab comprises determining whether the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of bevacizumab in addition to the administration of platinum-based chemotherapy.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein determining whether the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of bevacizumab further comprises at least one of:
determining the patient's International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage;
determining the patient's Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status; and
determining the size of the tumor tissue remaining post-removal of the tumor.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein
a gene expression level of MFAP greater than a threshold gene expression level indicates a decreased likelihood of benefit from platinum -based chemotherapy, wherein the threshold gene expression level is selected based on a clinical outcome; a gene expression level of VEGFA greater than a threshold gene expression level indicates an increased likelihood of benefit from the administration of platinum-based chemotherapy, wherein the threshold gene expression level is selected based on a clinical outcome;
a FIGO stage greater than 1 indicates a decreased likelihood of benefit from the
administration of bevacizumab,
an ECOG performance status greater than 0 indicates an increased likelihood of benefit from the administration of bevacizumab, and
a tumor size smaller than 1 cm indicates an increased likelihood of benefit from the administration of bevacizumab.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the clinical outcome comprises increased time of progressionfree survival.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the patient's predicted increase in progression-free survival is at least 3 months, at least 4 months, at least 5 months, at least 6 months, at least 7 months, at least 8 months, at least 9 months, or at least 10 months.
7. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein determining whether the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of bevacizumab further comprises determining the patient's predicted progression-free survival time with the administration of a platinum-based chemotherapy without bevacizumab.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein determining whether the patient is predicted to benefit from a platinum-based chemotherapy without bevacizumab comprises:
determining the patient's gene expression level of microfibril associated protein 2 (MFAP2);
determining the patient's gene expression level of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA);
determining the patient's International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage;
determining the patient's Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG)
performance status; and determining the size of the tumor tissue remaining post-removal of the tumor.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein
a gene expression level of MFAP greater than a threshold gene expression level indicates a decreased likelihood of benefit from platinum -based chemotherapy, wherein the threshold gene expression level is selected based on a clinical outcome;
a gene expression level of VEGFA greater than a threshold gene expression level indicates an increased likelihood of benefit from the administration of platinum-based chemotherapy, wherein the threshold gene expression level is selected based on a clinical outcome;
a FIGO stage greater than 1 indicates a decreased likelihood of benefit from platinum -based chemotherapy,
an ECOG performance status greater than 0 indicates a decreased likelihood of benefit from platinum-based chemotherapy, and
a tumor size smaller than 1 cm indicates an increased likelihood of benefit from platinumbased chemotherapy.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the clinical outcome comprises increased time of progressionfree survival.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the patient's predicted increase in progression-free survival is at least 3 months, at least 4 months, at least 5 months, at least 6 months, at least 7 months, at least 8 months, at least 9 months, or at least 10 months.
12. The method of any one of claim 7 to 11, wherein determining whether the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of bevacizumab further comprises determining if the patient's predicted progression-free survival time with the administration of a platinum-based chemotherapy and bevacizumab is greater than the patient's predicted progression-free survival time with the administration of a platinum-based chemotherapy without bevacizumab.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of bevacizumab if the patient's predicted increase in progression-free survival is clinically meaningful.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of bevacizumab if the patient's predicted increase in progression-free survival is at least 3 months, at least 4 months, at least 5 months, at least 6 months, at least 7 months, at least 8 months, at least 9 months, or at least 10 months.
15. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein determining whether the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of bevacizumab comprises defining a benefit threshold.
16. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein determining whether the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of bevacizumab comprises applying a Cox model.
17. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the method comprises administering platinum-based chemotherapy.
18. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the tumor comprises a primary tumor or a secondary tumor.
19. The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising:
receiving an identified set of biomarkers determined based on a set of predetermined data comprising clinical data, gene expression data, or both, wherein the identified set of biomarkers comprises at least MFAP2 and VEGFA;
identifying other sets of biomarkers based on the identified set of biomarkers and remaining data comprising the set of predetermined data excluding the identified set of biomarkers; and
generating a signature for each set of biomarkers to predict an outcome for a patient having ovarian cancer,
wherein determining whether the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of bevacizumab is based on an ensemble prediction using a plurality of signatures and patient test data comprising clinical data, gene expression data, or both.
20. A method for treating a patient suffering from ovarian cancer following removal of a tumor, the method comprising: determining whether the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of a platinum -based chemotherapy, wherein such determination comprises:
determining the patient's gene expression level of microfibril associated protein 2 (MFAP2);
determining the patient's International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage;
determining the patient's Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG)
performance status; and
determining the size of the tumor tissue remaining post-removal of the tumor; and if the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of platinum-based
chemotherapy, administering platinum-based chemotherapy.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein determining whether the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of a platinum-based chemotherapy further comprises:
determining the patient's gene expression level of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA).
22. The method of claim 21, wherein
a gene expression level of MFAP greater than a threshold gene expression level indicates a decreased likelihood of benefit from the administration of platinum -based chemotherapy, wherein the threshold gene expression level is selected based on a clinical outcome;
a gene expression level of VEGFA greater than a threshold gene expression level indicates an increased likelihood of benefit from the administration of platinum-based chemotherapy, wherein the threshold gene expression level is selected based on a clinical outcome;
a FIGO stage greater than 1 indicates a decreased likelihood of benefit from platinum -based chemotherapy,
an ECOG performance status greater than 0 indicates aa decreased likelihood of benefit from platinum-based chemotherapy, and
a tumor size smaller than 1 cm indicates an increased likelihood of benefit from platinumbased chemotherapy.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the clinical outcome comprises increased time of progressionfree survival.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the patient's predicted increase in progression-free survival is at least 3 months, at least 4 months, at least 5 months, at least 6 months, at least 7 months, at least 8 months, at least 9 months, or at least 10 months.
25. The method of any one of claims 20 to 24, wherein determining whether the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of a platinum-based chemotherapy further comprises determining the patient's predicted progression-free survival time.
26. The method of any one of claims 20 to 25, wherein determining whether the patient is predicted to benefit from the administration of a platinum-based chemotherapy comprises applying a Cox model.
27. The method of any one of claims 20 to 26, wherein the method comprises administering bevacizumab.
28. The method of any one of claims 20 to 27, wherein the tumor comprises a primary tumor.
29. A method comprising:
identifying a patient with ovarian cancer;
determining a patient's gene expression levels of microfibril associated protein 2 (MFAP2) and vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) in a biological sample containing cancer cells obtained from the patient,
determining the patient's International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage,
determining the patient's Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status, determining the size of the tumor tissue remaining post-removal of a tumor, and
calculating a patient risk score for the patient.
30. The method of claim 29 wherein the patient risk score (recurrence score) is calculated as follows:
recurrence score = 0.3 l*figo_numeric-
0.35*surg_outcome+0.23*MFAP2+0.48*ECOG+0.l9* VEGFA*Bevacizumab-
0. l5*MFAP2*Bevacizumab-0.44*ECOG*Bevacizumab
wherein figo numeric = FIGO stage coded as integers,
wherein surg outcome is -1 if the surgical outcome was suboptimal; 0 if the surgical outcome was optimal but tumor tissue smaller than 1 cm remained; or +1 if the surgical outcome was optimal and no visible macroscopic tumor tissue remained;
wherein MFAP2 = gene expression level of MFAP2;
wherein ECOG = ECOG performance status; and
wherein VEGFA = gene expression level of VEGFA.
31. The method of claims 29 or 30, the method further comprising calculating the patient's risk of recurrence at time wherein
wherein is the baseline hazard function estimated with a non-parametric strategy.
32. The method of any one of claims 29 to 31, wherein determining the expression levels of MFAP2 and VEGFA comprises measuring levels of RNA transcripts
33. The method of claim 32, wherein the method further comprises normalizing the level of the RNA transcripts to obtain normalized gene expression levels.
34. The method of any one of claims 29 to 33, wherein the biological sample containing cancer cells is fixed, paraffin-embedded, fresh, or frozen.
35. The method of any one of claims 29 to 34, wherein the method further comprises computing the patient's risk of recurrence at time t if the patient receives platinum-based therapy.
36. The method of any one claims 29 to 35, wherein the method further comprises computing the patient's risk of recurrence at time t if the patient receives bevacizumab.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the method comprises calculating the benefit of the patient receiving bevacizumab and platinum-based therapy versus platinum-based therapy without bevacizumab.
38. The method of any one of claims 29 to 37, wherein the method further comprises administering bevacizumab or platinum-based therapy or both.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein the method comprises administering bevacizumab only if the patient's risk of recurrence at time t of the patient receiving bevacizumab is greater than the patient's risk of recurrence at time t of the patient receiving platinum-based therapy without bevacizumab.
40. The method of claim 39, wherein the difference in the patient's risk of recurrence at time t is at least 1 month, at least 2 months, at least 3 months, at least 4 months, at least 5 months, or at least 6 months.
41. A method for predicting the response of a patient with ovarian cancer to treatment with bevacizumab, the method comprising:
determining gene expression levels of VEGFA and MFAP2;
calculating a FIGO numeric score, wherein the FIGO stage is coded as an integer;
calculating a surgical outcome score, wherein the score is -1 if the surgical outcome was suboptimal; 0 if the surgical outcome was optimal but tumor tissue smaller than 1 cm remained; or +1 if the surgical outcome was optimal and no visible macroscopic tumor tissue remained;
calculating an ECOG score of 0 to 2, based on ECOG performance status;
applying the expression levels, FIGO numeric score, surgical outcome score, and ECOG score to a predictive model that relates the variables with progression-free survival of ovarian cancer; and
evaluating an output of the predictive model to predict progression-free survival of the patient.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein the method further comprises applying the expression levels, FIGO numeric score, surgical outcome score, and ECOG score to a predictive model that relates the variables with progression-free survival of a patient with ovarian cancer if the patient is given platinum-based therapy or with progression-free survival of a patient with ovarian cancer if the patient is given platinum-based therapy and bevacizumab.
43. The method of claim 41 or 42, wherein the predictive model comprises a Cox model.
44. A method for predicting the response of a patient with ovarian cancer to treatment with bevacizumab, the method comprising:
determining gene expression levels of a collection of genes taken from a biological sample of the patient, wherein the collection of genes comprises the genes of any one of Tables 9-12;
applying the expression levels to a predictive model that relates the expression levels of the collection of genes the likelihood of progression-free survival of the patient; and
evaluating an output of the predictive model to predict the likelihood of progression-free survival of the patient.
45. The method of claim 44, the method further comprising applying at least one of FIGO stage, surgical outcome, ECOG score, and tumor histology to the predictive model.
46. The method of any one of claims 41 to 45, wherein the predictive model calculates progressionfree survival of a patient with ovarian cancer if the patient is given platinum-based therapy and progression-free survival of a patient with ovarian cancer if the patient is given platinum-based therapy and bevacizumab.
47. A method for predicting progression-free survival of a patient with ovarian cancer, the method comprising:
determining gene expression levels of a collection of genes taken from a biological sample of the patient, wherein the collection of genes comprises the genes of any one of Tables 6, 7, or 13- 68; applying the expression levels to a predictive model that relates the expression levels of the collection of genes with progression-free survival of ovarian cancer; and
evaluating an output of the predictive model to predict progression-free survival of the patient.
48. The method of claim 47, wherein the collection of genes is selected from the genes of any one of Tables 6, 7, or 13-68 by optimizing the predictive performance with a constraint.
49. The method of claims 47 or 48, the method further comprising applying at least one of FIGO stage, surgical outcome, and tumor histology to progression-free survival of a patient with ovarian cancer.
50. The method of any one of claims 47 to 49, the method further comprising detecting an additional biomarker of progression-free survival of the patient.
51. The method of claim 50, wherein the additional biomarker of progression-free survival comprises a germline mutation, a somatic mutation, a DNA methylation marker, a protein marker, or a combination thereof.
52. The method of any one of claims 41 to 51, wherein the expression levels of the collection of genes are determined at multiple times.
53. The method of any one of claims 41 to 52, wherein the predictive model comprises a support vector machine model.
54. The method of any one of claims 41 to 53, wherein the biological sample is fixed, paraffinembedded, fresh, or frozen.
55. A method comprising the method of any one of claims 41 to 53 and further comprising administering platinum-based therapy or bevacizumab or both to the patient.
56. A method for predicting an outcome for a patient, the method comprising: receiving an identified set of biomarkers determined based on a set of predetermined data comprising clinical data, gene expression data, or both;
identifying other sets of biomarkers based on the identified set of biomarkers and remaining data comprising the set of predetermined data excluding the identified set of biomarkers;
generating a signature for each set of biomarkers to predict an outcome for a patient having ovarian cancer; and
determining a prediction of an outcome for a patient having ovarian cancer based on one or more signatures and patient test data comprising clinical data, gene expression data, or both.
57. The method of claim 56, wherein the outcome relates to progression-free survival for a patient with ovarian cancer.
58. The method of claim 56, wherein the outcome relates to benefitting from the administration of bevacizumab, platinum -based chemotherapy, or both for a patient with ovarian cancer.
59. The method of any one of claims 56 to 58, wherein generating a signature for each set of biomarkers comprises feeding each set of biomarkers into a machine learning classifier fitting and model pipeline.
60. The method of claim 59, wherein the machine learning classifier fitting and model pipeline incorporates model selection and error estimation.
61. The method of claim 59 or 60, wherein the machine learning classifier fitting and model pipeline applies one or more of the following: a repeated nested n-fold cross validation with grid parameter choice, a support vector machine classifier, a random forest classifier, or a lasso classifier.
62. The method of any one of claims 56 to 61, wherein determining a prediction of an outcome for a patient having ovarian cancer is based on an ensemble prediction using one or more signatures.
63. The method of claim 62, wherein the ensemble prediction averages outputs of each signature.
64. The method of claim 62, wherein the ensemble prediction uses one or more signatures or each signature based on available patient test data.
65. The method of any one of claims 56 to 64, wherein each signature is statistically
indistinguishable from another signature for a particular predictivity level.
66. The method of any one of claims 56 to 65, wherein each signature is a minimal set of biomarkers for a particular predictivity level.
67. The method of any one of claims 56 to 66, wherein each signature comprises some or all genes of any of Tables 6, 7, or 9-68.
68. The method of any one of claims 56 to 67, wherein identifying other sets of biomarkers comprises feeding the identified set of biomarkers and remaining data into a TIE* algorithm to provide the other sets of biomarkers.
69. The method of claim 68, wherein the TIE* algorithm identifies the Markov Boundary set of biomarkers in the remaining data.
70. The method of claim 68 or 69, wherein the TIE* algorithm recursively identifies the Markov Boundary sets of biomarkers for different subsets of remaining data.
71. A method for predicting an outcome for a patient, the method comprising:
determining a prediction of an outcome for a patient having ovarian cancer based on one or more signatures and patient test data comprising clinical data, gene expression data, or both, wherein the one or more signatures are generated to be statistically indistinguishable from a signature of any one of Tables 6, 7, or 9-68 for predicting a clinical response to bevacizumab, platinum-based chemotherapy, or both.
</claims>
</document>
