<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/08,H04W4/44
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ACIKALIN, TOLGA
MOUSTAFA, HASSNAA
PEREZ-RAMIREZ, JAVIER
ROBERTS, RICHARD
SADEGHI, BAHAREH
XU, SHENGBO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70334150
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE COMMUNICATION
</title>

<abstract>
The subject matter described herein presents various technical solutions for the technical problems facing autonomous vehicles (e.g., fully autonomous and semi-autonomous vehicles). To address technical problems facing wireless communication cost and latency, a heterogeneous roadside infrastructure can be used to improve the ability for a vehicle to communicate with a data source. To address technical problems facing interruption of vehicle services due to an abrupt loss of connection, a quality of service system provides the ability to determine and share quality of service information, such as location-based information, maps, interference data, and other quality of service information. To address technical problems facing high volume data upload and download between autonomous vehicles and cloud-based data services, optical wireless communication (OWC) provides increased data throughput and reduced complexity, and may be beneficial for short-range high-mobility wireless communications.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. An autonomous vehicle distributed services system comprising:
a content delivery network device to receive a services content data set from a cloud device; and
a mobile edge computing device to:
receive the services content data set from the content delivery network device; generate a services advertisement data set based on the services content data set; and
provide service access to an autonomous vehicle based on the services advertisement data set.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the services content data set includes at least one of a high definition vehicle navigation data set, a smart parking service data set, a vehicle software update data set, a vehicle firmware update data set, a vehicle security patch data set, a locationbased traffic data set, a location-based weather data set, an entertainment service data set, and an office service data set.
3. The system of claim 1, further including a roadside unit to:
receive the services advertisement data set from the mobile edge computing device; and receive a services subscription data set from the autonomous vehicle, wherein the provision of the service access is based on the services subscription data set.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the mobile edge computing device is further configured to:
provide the generated services advertisement data set to the autonomous vehicle; and receive the services subscription data set from the autonomous vehicle, wherein the provision of the service access is based on the services subscription data set.
5. The system of claim 3, further including an edge node device to:
provide the services advertisement data set to the autonomous vehicle;
receive the services subscription data set from the autonomous vehicle; and
authenticate a service access for the autonomous vehicle based on the services subscription data set.
6. The system of claim 3, wherein the roadside unit is further configured to: provide the services advertisement data set to the autonomous vehicle;
receive the services subscription data set from the autonomous vehicle; and
authenticate the service access for the autonomous vehicle based on the services subscription data set.
7. The system of claim 3, wherein the roadside unit is further configured to:
provide a vehicle authentication request from the roadside unit to the cloud device; and receive a vehicle authentication verification, wherein the provision of the service access is based on the vehicle authentication verification.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the edge node device is further configured to:
provide the vehicle authentication request from the edge node device to the cloud device; and
receive the vehicle authentication verification, wherein the provision of the service access includes sending a plurality of service data, the plurality of service data encrypted based on the vehicle authentication verification.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein:
the cloud device provides a one-time decryption key to the autonomous vehicle;
the edge node device communicates with the autonomous vehicle based on messages encrypted based on a one-time encryption key, the one-time decryption key providing decryption of messages encrypted using the one-time encryption key; and
the roadside unit communicates with the autonomous vehicle based on messages encrypted based on the one-time encryption key.
10. A method for delivering wireless communications to an autonomous vehicle, the method comprising:
receiving a services content data set from a cloud device;
generating a services advertisement data set based on the services content data set; and providing service access to the autonomous vehicle based on the services advertisement data set.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the services content data set includes at least one of a high definition vehicle navigation data set, a smart parking service data set, a vehicle software update data set, a vehicle firmware update data set, a vehicle security patch data set, a locationbased traffic data set, a location-based weather data set, an entertainment service data set, or an office service data set.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising:
receiving a services subscription data set from the autonomous vehicle, wherein the provision of the service access is based on the services subscription data set.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising:
providing the generated services advertisement data set to the autonomous vehicle; and receiving the services subscription data set from the autonomous vehicle, wherein the provision of the service access is based on the services subscription data set.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising:
providing the services advertisement data set to the autonomous vehicle;
receiving the services subscription data set from the autonomous vehicle; and
authenticating a service access for the autonomous vehicle based on the services subscription data set.
15. The method of claim 12, further comprising:
providing a vehicle authentication request to the cloud device; and
receiving a vehicle authentication verification, wherein the provision of the service access is based on the vehicle authentication verification.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
providing the vehicle authentication request to the cloud device; and
receiving the vehicle authentication verification, wherein the provision of the service access includes sending a plurality of service data, the plurality of service data encrypted based on the vehicle authentication verification.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein:
communications with the autonomous vehicle are encrypted based on a one-time encryption key, wherein a one-time decryption key is provided to the autonomous vehicle by the cloud device, the one-time decryption key being usable for decryption of messages encrypted using the one-time encryption key.
18. A mobile edge computing device for use in an autonomous vehicle distributed services system, the mobile edge computing device comprising:
millimeter wave communication hardware configured to communicate with a roadside unit;
wired communication hardware configured to communicate with a content delivery network device; and
processor circuitry configured to cause the mobile edge computing device to:
receive services content data set from the content delivery network device via the wired communication hardware;
generate a services advertisement data set based on the services content data set; and
provide service access to an autonomous vehicle, via the millimeter wave communication hardware, based on the services advertisement data set.
19. The mobile edge computing device of claim 18, wherein the processor circuitry is further configured to cause the mobile edge computing device to:
provide the generated services advertisement data set to the autonomous vehicle; and receive the services subscription data set from the autonomous vehicle, wherein the provision of the service access is based on the services subscription data set.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the processor circuitry is further configured to cause the mobile edge computing device to:
provide the services advertisement data set to the autonomous vehicle;
receive the services subscription data set from the autonomous vehicle; and
authenticate a service access for the autonomous vehicle based on the services subscription data set.
</claims>
</document>
