<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/02,A61B5/021,G01L7/08,G01L9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NXSTAGE MEDICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRUGGER, JAMES, M.
WYETH, MARK T.
MCDERMOTT, Adam G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72519364
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRESSURE MEASUREMENT DEVICES, METHODS, AND SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A pressure measurement system includes a pressure pod with two chambers separated by a diaphragm such that a deformation/movement of the diaphragm is indicative of a difference between the pressures of the two chambers. Such deformation/movement is detected by a device that has no physical contact with the diaphragm, for example, by an optical detector that detects a change in the shape of the diaphragm or a movement of a protrusion on the diaphragm.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of pressure measurement comprising:
determining a Moire pattern resulting from an interference of a Moire filter with markings on a diaphragm of a pressure pod;
determining a movement or deformation of the diaphragm based on the Moire pattern; and
determining a fluid pressure in the pressure pod based on the movement or deformation of the diaphragm.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the Moire filter comprises concentric transparent and opaque circles.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein the markings on the diaphragm comprise concentric transparent and opaque circles.
4. The method of claim 1 , wherein the markings on the diaphragm are engraved or embossed.
5. A method of pressure measurement comprising:
determining a Moire pattern resulting from an interference of a Moire filter with markings on a protrusion on a diaphragm of a pressure pod;
determining a movement of the protrusion on the diaphragm based on the Moire pattern; and
determining a fluid pressure in the pressure pod based on the movement of the protrusion on the diaphragm.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the Moire filter comprises parallel transparent and opaque lines.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the markings on the protrusion on the diaphragm comprise parallel transparent and opaque lines.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the markings on the protrusion on the diaphragm are engraved or embossed.
9. A method of pressure measurement comprising:
determining a first Moire pattern resulting from an interference of a first Moire filter with markings on a diaphragm of a pressure pod;
determining a movement or deformation of the diaphragm based on the first Moire pattern; determining a second Moire pattern resulting from an interference of a second Moire filter with markings on a protrusion on the diaphragm of the pressure pod; determining a movement of the protrusion on the diaphragm based on the second Moire pattern; and
determining a fluid pressure in the pressure pod based on the movement or deformation of the diaphragm and the movement of the protrusion on the diaphragm.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first Moire filter comprises concentric transparent and opaque circles.
1 1. The method of claim 9, wherein the markings on the diaphragm comprise concentric transparent and opaque circles.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the markings on the diaphragm are engraved or embossed.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the second Moire filter comprises parallel transparent and opaque lines.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the markings on the protrusion on the diaphragm comprise parallel transparent and opaque lines.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the markings on the protrusion on the diaphragm are engraved or embossed.
16. The method of any of claims 1 -15, wherein the pressure pod comprises: a housing with a flow channel, the housing having a single wall forming a selfsupporting structure with a defined flow channel connecting two ports in
communication with the flow channel;
the flow channel having one wall portion of the housing that is substantially thinner than a remainder of the housing, the one wall portion having a major dimension that is no larger than one of the two ports, thus permitting the housing to be closed by a molding operation and without requiring attachment of separate parts to close the housing, the one wall portion comprising the diaphragm.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the one wall portion is circular.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the one wall portion is integral with the remainder of the housing.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the one wall portion is configured such that the flow channel housing can be closed with a single molding operation and without requiring attachment of separate parts to close the housing.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the two ports are located on opposite sides of the flow channel with axes that are parallel to a major plane of the one wall portion.
21. The method of claim 16, wherein the method is performed by an optical detector detecting a displacement of the one wall portion corresponding to negative as well as positive pressure within the flow channel.
22. The method of claim 16, wherein the pressure pod is manufactured by: providing first and second major mold parts having recesses defining major parts of the housing;
inserting pins in the first and second major mold parts, the pins being shaped to define the flow channel of the pressure pod;
one of the pins having a major face that defines an internal surface of the diaphragm;
closing the first and second major mold parts with the pins therebetween and injection molding the housing; and
removing the pressure pod from the mold parts and withdrawing the pins from flow channel.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the removing opens ports in the housing that communicate through the housing.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein one of the pins has a major dimension that is larger than, equal in size to, the diaphragm.
25. The method of claim 22, wherein one of the pins has a major dimension that is larger than, equal in size to, a diameter of the diaphragm.
26. The method of claim 22, wherein the diaphragm has a projection on an outside surface thereof.
27. The method of claim 16, wherein the method is performed by a controller of a system for measuring pressure in a fluid circuit, the system comprising:
the pressure pod; and
an optical displacement measuring apparatus against which the pressure pod is immobilized, wherein the diaphragm is optically monitored by the optical displacement measuring apparatus.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the optical displacement measuring apparatus is configured to generate a signal responsively to displacement of the diaphragm, wherein the diaphragm is configured to present a smooth internal surface to an internal flow path of the pressure pod, the internal flow path extending between inlet and outlet ports of the pressure pod having a hydraulic diameter of no more than 15 mm at all points therethrough.
29. The method of claim 27, wherein an internal flow path of the pressure pod has a cross-section whose aspect ratio does not exceed three.
30. The method of claim 26, wherein the pressure pod comprises a housing that is a self-supporting inline pod structure.
31. The method of claim 28, wherein an internal surface of a flow path in the pressure pod has a positive or neutral draft from any point toward at least one of an inlet port and an outlet port of the pressure pod and at all of said internal surface from said any one point to at least one of said inlet port and outlet ports.
32. The method of claim 30, wherein the housing, including the diaphragm and the projection, are integral and of the same material such that they are configured to be molded as a single element.
33. The method of claim 28, wherein one of the two ports is larger than the other, and the larger port is connected to a fluid circuit for medical treatment, wherein the larger port is connected to a pump tubing segment and the other port is connected to a non-pump tubing segment.
34. The method of claim 28, wherein the housing has an annular rim and the optical displacement measuring apparatus has a boss configured to mate with the annular rim.
35. The method of claim 29, wherein the internal flow path from port to port has a hydraulic diameter that varies by not more than 80%.
36. The method of claim 29, wherein a hydraulic diameter in the internal flow path remains at all points along the internal flow path, in a range between 4 mm and 10 mm.
37. The method of claim 29, wherein the flow includes a blood flow.
38. A pressure detection apparatus, comprising:
a pressure pod having a chamber with a flow channel through which fluid flows and a diaphragm at a blind end of a recess with an access defined by a round ring, the diaphragm defining a wall of the chamber; and
a pressure transducer plug having a generally cylindrical wall with a vacuum channel formed therein and a resilient seal around a perimeter that forms a seal with an interior surface of the recess between the blind end and the access.
39. The apparatus of claim 38, wherein the pressure transducer plug has a flexible wall that touches the diaphragm.
40. The apparatus of claim 39, further comprising a vacuum pump connected to the vacuum channel and configured to generate a vacuum.
41. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein the flow channel opens to a space between the flexible wall and the diaphragm such that the vacuum applied to the flow channel causes the flexible wall and the diaphragm to be held together and to flex together responsively to a pressure of fluid in the chamber.
42. A pressure measurement apparatus, comprising:
a pressure pod having a fluid channel defined in part by a diaphragm;
the diaphragm being flat and being positioned in a base of a well that fits snugly over a pressure transducer plug, the pressure transducer plug having a force input plate that lies adjacent the diaphragm when the well is fitted snugly over the pressure transducer plug;
the pressure transducer plug having a bore connectable to a vacuum pump, the bore opening between the diaphragm and the force input plate such that air can be evacuated from a space between the force input plate and the diaphragm;
a resilient seal around the pressure transducer plug positioned and shaped to form a seal with the well;
the pressure transducer plug having a rigid ring portion that is seated at a perimeter of the diaphragm when air is evacuated from a space between the force input plate and the diaphragm; and
a surface of the rigid ring portion being coplanar with a surface of the force input plate and a surface of the diaphragm.
43. The apparatus of claim 42 wherein the pressure transducer plug has a strain gauge to which force is applied by said force input plate through an
incompressible fluid contained by said pressure transducer plug.
44. The apparatus of claim 43, wherein an area of the strain gauge is smaller than an area of the force input plate.
45. The apparatus of claim 42, wherein the bore opens at said rigid ring portion.
46. The apparatus of claim 42, further comprising a vacuum pump connected to said bore.
47. The apparatus of claim 42, wherein the pressure transducer plug includes a pressure transducer and a cylindrical adapter, the cylindrical adapter having the bore and rigid ring portion, the pressure transducer having the force input plate.
48. The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the pressure pod is part of a disposable fluid circuit.
49. The apparatus of claim 46, wherein the diaphragm applies a negative force to said force input plate when a negative pressure is present in said fluid channel the negative force being responsive to a vacuum applied by said vacuum pump.
50. A pressure measurement apparatus, comprising:
a pressure pod having a fluid channel defined in part by a diaphragm;
the diaphragm being flat and being positioned over a pressure transducer plug and held in place by a vacuum, the pressure transducer plug having a force input plate that lies adjacent the diaphragm;
the pressure transducer plug having a bore connectable to a vacuum pump, the bore opening between the diaphragm and the force input plate such that air can be evacuated from a space between the force input plate and the diaphragm;
a resilient seal around the pressure transducer plug positioned and shaped to form a seal with the diaphragm;
the pressure transducer plug having a rigid ring portion that is seated at a perimeter of the diaphragm when air is evacuated from a space between the force input plate and the diaphragm; and
a surface of the rigid ring portion being coplanar with a surface of the force input plate and a surface of the diaphragm.
51. The apparatus of claim 50 wherein the pressure transducer plug has a strain gauge to which force is applied by said force input plate through an
incompressible fluid contained by said pressure transducer plug.
52. The apparatus of claim 51 , wherein an area of the strain gauge is smaller than an area of the force input plate.
53. The apparatus of claim 50, wherein the bore opens at said rigid ring portion.
54. The apparatus of claim 50, further comprising a vacuum pump connected to said bore.
55. The apparatus of claim 50, wherein the pressure transducer plug includes a pressure transducer and a cylindrical adapter, the cylindrical adapter having the bore and rigid ring portion, the pressure transducer having the force input plate.
56. The apparatus of claim 55, wherein the pressure pod is part of a disposable fluid circuit.
57. The apparatus of claim 54, wherein the diaphragm applies a negative force to said force input plate when a negative pressure is present in said fluid channel the negative force being responsive to a vacuum applied by said vacuum pump.
58. A method for measuring pressure, comprising:
seating a diaphragm of a fluid channel against a force input plate, the seating including applying a vacuum to a space between the force input plate and the diaphragm;
drawing the force input plate toward the fluid channel by applying a negative pressure in said fluid channel, said drawing being responsive to a force of said vacuum; and
applying a force to a strain gauge through a fluid medium by said drawing the force input plate.
59. The method of claim 58, wherein the seating includes inserting the force input plate into a well with the diaphragm at its base.
60. The method of claim 59, wherein the applying a vacuum includes sealing a gap between the well and a support plug to which said force input plate is attached by a resilient sealing member that surrounds said support plug.
61. The method of claim 60, wherein the support plug contains said fluid medium.
</claims>
</document>
