<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/68
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TEMPUS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG YILIN
TELL, ROBERT
BELL, JOSHUA
SALAHUDEEN, AMEEN
SANCHEZ-FREIRE, VERONICA
PARSONS, JEROD
IGARTUA, CATHERINE
VENKAT, AARTI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71945081
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AN INTEGRATED MACHINE-LEARNING FRAMEWORK TO ESTIMATE HOMOLOGOUS RECOMBINATION DEFICIENCY
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and software are provided for determining a homologous recombination pathway status of a cancer in a test subject, e.g., to improve cancer treatment predictions and outcomes. In some embodiments, classifiers using one or more of (i) a heterozygosity status for DNA damage repair genes in a cancerous tissue, (ii) a measure of the loss of heterozygosity across the genome of the cancerous tissue, (iii) a measure of variant alleles detected in a second plurality of DNA damage repair genes in the genome of the cancerous tissue, (iv) a measure of variant alleles detected in the second plurality of DNA damage repair genes in the genome of a non-cancerous tissue, and (v) tumor sample purity are provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining a homologous recombination pathway status of a cancer in a test subject, the method comprising:
at a computer system having one or more processors, and memory storing one or more programs for execution by the one or more processors:
(A) obtaining a first plurality of sequence reads, in electronic form, of a first DNA sample from the test subject, the first DNA sample comprising DNA molecules from a cancerous tissue of the subject;
(B) obtaining a second plurality of sequence reads, in electronic, of a second DNA sample from the test subject, the second DNA sample consisting of DNA molecules from a non-cancerous tissue of the subject;
(C) generating, based on the first plurality of sequence reads and the second plurality of sequence reads, a genomic data construct for the subject, the genomic data construct comprising one or more a features of the genomes of the cancerous and non-cancerous tissues of the subject, the plurality of features including (i) a heterozygosity status for a first plurality of DNA damage repair genes in the genome of the cancerous tissue of the subject, (ii) a measure of the loss of heterozygosity across the genome of the cancerous tissue of the subject, (iii) a measure of variant alleles detected in a second plurality of DNA damage repair genes in the genome of the cancerous tissue of the subject, and (iv) a measure of variant alleles detected in the second plurality of DNA damage repair genes in the genome of the non-cancerous tissue of the subject; and
(D) inputting the genomic data construct into a classifier trained to distinguish between cancers with homologous recombination pathway deficiencies and cancers without homologous recombination pathway deficiencies, thereby determining the homologous recombination pathway status of the test subject.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first DNA sample is from a solid tumor biopsy of the cancerous tissue of the subject.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the second DNA sample is from a huffy coat
preparation of a blood sample from the subject. 4. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the first plurality of sequence reads was generated by targeted sequencing using a plurality of nucleic acid probes to enrich nucleic acids from the cancerous tissue of the subject for a panel of genomic regions.
5. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the first plurality of sequence reads was generated by whole genome sequencing of nucleic acids from the cancerous tissue of the subject.
6. The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the second plurality of sequence reads was generated by targeted sequencing using a plurality of nucleic acid probes to enrich nucleic acids from the non-cancerous tissue of the subject for a panel of genomic regions.
7. The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the second plurality of sequence reads was generated by whole genome sequencing of nucleic acids from the non-cancerous tissue of the subject.
8. The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the measure of the loss of heterozygosity across the genome of the cancerous tissue of the subject is determined by:
determining a loss of genomic heterozygosity in the first plurality of sequence reads, and normalizing the determined loss of heterozygosity by an estimate of the tumor purity for the first plurality of sequence reads.
9. The method of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the heterozygosity status for the first plurality of DNA damage repair genes comprises a count of the number of unique frameshift mutations detected in the first plurality of DNA damage repair genes.
10. The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the heterozygosity status for the first
plurality of DNA damage repair genes comprises a count of the number of unique truncating mutations detected in the first plurality of DNA damage repair genes.
11. The method of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the first plurality of DNA damage repair genes comprises BRCA1 and BRCA2. 12. The method of any one of claims 1-11, wherein the measure of variant alleles detected in the second plurality of DNA damage repair genes in the genome of the cancerous tissue of the subject comprises a count of the number of unique mutations associated with loss of homologous recombination detected in the first plurality of sequence reads.
13. The method of any one of claims 1-12, wherein the measure of variant alleles detected in the second plurality of DNA damage repair genes in the genome of the non-cancerous tissue of the subject comprises a count of the number of unique mutations associated with loss of homologous recombination detected in the second plurality of sequence reads.
14. The method of any one of claims 1-13, wherein the second plurality of DNA damage repair genes comprises BRCA1 and BRCA2.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the unique mutations associated with loss of
homologous recombination in BRCA1 and BRCA2 include at least 50 of the mutations listed in Table 1.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the unique mutations associated with loss of
homologous recombination in BRCA1 and BRCA2 comprises the mutations listed in Table 1.
17. The method of any one of claims 1-16, wherein the method further comprises:
when it is determined that the cancer in the test subject is homologous recombination deficient, treating the cancer by administering a poly ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitor to the test subject; and
when it is determined the cancer in the test subject is not homologous recombination deficient, treating the cancer with a therapy that does not include administration of a PARP inhibitor to the test subject.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the PARP inhibitor is selected from the group
consisting of olaparib, veliparib, rucaparib, niraparib, and talazoparib. 19. The method of any one of claims 1-18, wherein the cancer is breast cancer.
20. The method of any one of claims 1-18, wherein the cancer is ovarian cancer.
21. The method of any one of claims 1-18, wherein the cancer is colorectal cancer.
22. The method of any one of claims 1-21, wherein the classifier is a neural network
algorithm, a support vector machine algorithm, a Naive Bayes algorithm, a nearest neighbor algorithm, a boosted trees algorithm, a random forest algorithm, a convolutional neural network algorithm, a decision tree algorithm, a regression algorithm, or a clustering algorithm.
23. The method of any one of claims 1-21, wherein the classifier is a random forest
algorithm.
24. The method of any one of claims 1-3 and 8-23, wherein the first plurality of sequence reads was generated by exome sequencing of cDNA molecules generated from the cancerous tissue of the subject.
25. The method of any one of claims 1-3 and 8-23, wherein the second plurality of sequence reads was generated by exome sequencing of cDNA molecules generated from the noncancerous tissue of the subject.
26. A computer system comprising:
one or more processors; and
a non-transitory computer-readable medium including computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the processors to perform a method according to any one of claims 1-23.
27. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon program code instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the method according to any one of claims 1-23. 28. A method for training an algorithm for determining a homologous recombination pathway status of a cancer, the method comprising:
at a computer system comprising at least one processor and a memory storing at least one program for execution by the at least one processor:
(A) obtaining, for each respective training subject in a plurality of training subjects with cancer, a corresponding genomic data construct for the respective training subject, the corresponding genomic training construct comprising (a) a homologous recombination pathway status for the cancer of the respective training subject, and (b) one or more features of the genomes of cancerous and a non-cancerous tissues of the respective training subject, the one or more features including (i) a heterozygosity status for a first plurality of DNA damage repair genes in the genome of the cancerous tissue of the respective training subject, (ii) a measure of the loss of heterozygosity across the genome of the cancerous tissue of the respective training subject, (iii) a measure of variant alleles detected in a second plurality of DNA damage repair genes in the genome of the cancerous tissue of the respective training subject, and (iv) a measure of variant alleles detected in the second plurality of DNA damage repair genes in the genome of the non-cancerous tissue of the respective training subject; and
(B) training a classification algorithm against, for each respective training subject, at least (a) the homologous recombination pathway status for the cancer of the respective training subject, and (b) the plurality of features determined from the corresponding sample of DNA from the cancerous tissue of the respective training subject.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the one or more features of the genome of the
cancerous tissue of the respective training subject is determined from sequence reads of a DNA sample from a solid tumor biopsy from the respective training subject.
30. The method of claim 28 or 29, wherein the one or more features of the genome of the non-cancerous tissue of the respective training subject is determined from sequence reads of a DNA sample from a huffy coat preparation of a blood sample from the respective training subject.
31. The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the sequence reads of the DNA sample from the solid tumor biopsy from the respective training subject were generated by targeted sequencing using a plurality of nucleic acid probes to enrich nucleic acids from the cancerous tissue of the subject for a panel of genomic regions.
32. The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the sequence reads of the DNA sample from the solid tumor biopsy from the respective training subject were generated by whole genome sequencing of nucleic acids from the cancerous tissue of the subject.
33. The method of any one of claims 30-32, wherein the sequence reads of the DNA sample from the buffy coat preparation of the blood sample from the respective training subject were generated by targeted sequencing using a plurality of nucleic acid probes to enrich nucleic acids from the non-cancerous tissue of the subject for a panel of genomic regions.
34. The method of any one of claims 30-32, wherein the sequence reads of the DNA sample from the buffy coat preparation of the blood sample from the respective training subject were generated by whole genome sequencing of nucleic acids from the non-cancerous tissue of the subject.
35. The method of any one of claims 28-34, wherein the measure of the loss of
heterozygosity across the genome of the cancerous tissue of the respective training subject is determined by:
determining a loss of genomic heterozygosity in a first plurality of sequence reads from a cancerous tissue of the respective training subject, and
normalizing the determined loss of heterozygosity by an estimate of the tumor purity for the first plurality of sequence reads.
36. The method of any one of claims 28-35, wherein the heterozygosity status for the first plurality of DNA damage repair genes comprises a count of the number of unique frameshift mutations detected in the first plurality of DNA damage repair genes.
37. The method of any one of claims 28-36, wherein the heterozygosity status for the first plurality of DNA damage repair genes comprises a count of the number of unique truncating mutations detected in the first plurality of DNA damage repair genes. 38. The method of any one of claims 28-37, wherein the first plurality of DNA damage repair genes comprises BRCA1 and BRCA2.
39. The method of any one of claims 28-38, wherein the measure of variant alleles detected in the second plurality of DNA damage repair genes in the genome of the cancerous tissue of the subject comprises a count of the number of unique mutations associated with loss of homologous recombination detected in a first plurality of sequence reads from a cancerous tissue of the respective training subject.
40. The method of any one of claims 28-39, wherein the measure of variant alleles detected in the second plurality of DNA damage repair genes in the genome of the non-cancerous tissue of the subject comprises a count of the number of unique mutations associated with loss of homologous recombination detected in a second plurality of sequence reads from a non-cancerous tissue of the subject.
41. The method of any one of claims 28-40, wherein the second plurality of DNA damage repair genes comprises BRCA1 and BRCA2.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein the unique mutations associated with loss of
homologous recombination in BRCA1 and BRCA2 include at least 50 of the mutations listed in Table 1.
43. The method of claim 41, wherein the unique mutations associated with loss of
homologous recombination in BRCA1 and BRCA2 comprises the mutations listed in Table 1.
44. The method of any one of claims 28-43, wherein the cancer is breast cancer.
45. The method of any one of claims 28-43, wherein the cancer is ovarian cancer.
46. The method of any one of claims 28-43, wherein the cancer is colorectal cancer. 47. The method of any one of claims 28-46, wherein the classifier is a neural network algorithm, a support vector machine algorithm, a Naive Bayes algorithm, a nearest neighbor algorithm, a boosted trees algorithm, a random forest algorithm, a convolutional neural network algorithm, a decision tree algorithm, a regression algorithm, or a clustering algorithm.
48. The method of any one of claims 28-46, wherein the classifier is a random forest
algorithm.
49. A computer system comprising:
one or more processors; and
a non-transitory computer-readable medium including computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the processors to perform a method according to any one of claims 28-48.
50. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon program code instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the method according to any one of claims 28-48.
</claims>
</document>
