<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/02,G05B17/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ASPEN TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAN, WILLIE
BHAKTA, Ashok
CHEN, Hernshann
FISCHER, Benjamin
MOBED, Parham
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70919055
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMBINING MACHINE LEARNING WITH DOMAIN KNOWLEDGE AND FIRST PRINCIPLES FOR MODELING IN THE PROCESS INDUSTRIES
</title>

<abstract>
Computer-based process modeling and simulation methods and systems combine first principles models and machine learning models to benefit where either model is lacking. In one example, input values (measurements) are adjusted by first principles techniques. A machine learning model of the chemical process of interest is trained on the adjusted values. In another example, a machine learning model represents the residual (delta) between a first principles model prediction and empirical data. Residual machine learning models correct physical phenomena predictions in a first principles model of the chemical process. In another example, a first principles simulation model uses the process input data and predictions of the machine learning model to generate simulated results of the chemical process. The hybrid models enable a process engineer to troubleshoot the chemical process, enable debottlenecking the chemical process, enable optimizing performance of the chemical process at the subject industrial plant, and enable automated process control.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method of process modeling and simulation, comprising:
modeling a chemical process of a subject industrial plant, said modeling being by a processor and including generating a model that predicts progress of the chemical process; and
based on predictions made by the generated model, enabling improvements in performance of the chemical process at the subject industrial plant, the generated model including a hybrid model formed of a first principles model having at least one element enhanced by a machine learning model of the chemical process.
2. A method as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the one element enhanced by a machine learning model is an input variable based on plant data, and values of the input variable are augmented in training and developing the machine learning model.
3. A method as claimed in Claim 2 further comprising:
generating a dataset of variables based on first principles that augment original measured input variables from plant data, said generating resulting in augmented variables; and
using the original input variables combined with the augmented variables in training the machine learning model, the trained machine learning model producing a corresponding output variable dataset with enhanced accuracy.
4. A method as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the one element enhanced by a machine learning model is a measurement of a physical property of the chemical process, and the machine learning model prediction of the measurement of the physical property is used by the generated model instead of the first principles model prediction of the physical property.
5. A method as claimed in Claim 4 further comprising:
calculating a predicted value for output from a simulator, the first principles model forming the simulator; and training and developing the machine learning model to represent differences between observed output variable values from plant data and corresponding output variable values predicted by the simulator.
6. A method as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the one element enhanced by a machine learning model is a quantitative representation of a physical property for which there is no known measurement in plant data for use in the first principles model, and the machine learning model prediction of measurements of the physical property is used in the first principles model.
7. A method as claimed in Claim 6 wherein the first principles model is a simulation model, and the method further comprises:
configuring the machine learning model to calculate an unmeasurable simulation model parameter or function value of the chemical process;
using the calculated model parameter or function value as an input into the simulation model;
computing error of output of the simulation model relative to measured output from plant data; and
training the machine learning model using the computed error.
8. A method as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the generated model predicts any one or more of: operating conditions, physical properties, and output of the chemical process; and wherein the step of enabling improvements in performance of the chemical process include any of: enabling a process engineer to troubleshoot the chemical process, enabling debottlenecking a portion of the chemical process, and optimizing performance of the chemical process at the subject industrial plant.
9. A method as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the step of enabling improvements in performance of the chemical process includes: based on predictions made by the generated model, automatically controlling settings of equipment of the subject industrial plant.
10. A computer-based process modeling and simulation system, comprising: a modeling subsystem modeling a chemical process of a subject industrial plant, the modeling subsystem generating a model that predicts progress of the chemical process; and
an interface coupled to the modeling subsystem in a manner that enables improvements in performance of the chemical process at the subject industrial plant based on predictions made by the generated model, the generated model including a hybrid model formed of a first principles model having at least one element enhanced by a machine learning model of the chemical process.
11. A system as claimed in Claim 10 wherein the one element enhanced by a machine learning model is an input variable based on plant data, and values of the input variable are augmented in training and developing the machine learning model.
12. A system as claimed in Claim 11 wherein the modeling subsystem further:
generates a dataset of variables based on first principles that augment original measured input variables from plant data, said generating resulting in augmented variables; and
uses the original input variables combined with the augmented variables in training the machine learning model, the trained machine learning model producing a corresponding output variable dataset with enhanced accuracy.
13. A system as claimed in Claim 10 wherein the one element enhanced by a machine learning model is a measurement of a physical property of the chemical process, and the machine learning model prediction of the measurement of the physical property is used by the generated model instead of the first principles model prediction of the physical property.
14. A system as claimed in Claim 13 wherein the modeling subsystem further:
calculates a predicted value for output from a simulator, the first principles model forming the simulator; and
trains and develops the machine learning model to represent differences between observed output variable values from plant data and corresponding output variable values predicted by the simulator.
15. A system as claimed in Claim 10 wherein the one element enhanced by a machine learning model is a quantitative representation of a physical property for which there is no known measurement in plant data for use in the first principles model, and the machine learning model prediction of measurements of the physical property is used in the first principles model.
16. A system as claimed in Claim 15 wherein the first principles model is a simulation model, and the modeling subsystem further:
configures the machine learning model to calculate an unmeasurable simulation model parameter or function value of the chemical process;
uses the calculated model parameter or function value as an input into the simulation model;
computes error of output of the simulation model relative to measured output from plant data; and
trains the machine learning model using the computed error.
17. A system as claimed in Claim 10 wherein the generated model predicts any one or more of: operating conditions, physical properties, and output of the chemical process; and wherein the interface enables improvements in performance of the chemical process by any of: enabling a process engineer to troubleshoot the chemical process, enabling debottlenecking a portion of the chemical process, and optimizing performance of the chemical process at the subject industrial plant.
18. A system as claimed in Claim 10 wherein the interface includes a controller interface communicatively coupled to a controller of the subject industrial plant such that based on predictions made by the generated model, the controller automatically controls settings of equipment of the subject industrial plant.
19. A computer program product, comprising:
a computer readable medium having a memory area carrying computer code instructions embodying process modeling and simulation of a chemical process of interest in a subject industrial plant; and
the computer code instructions including instructions which when executed by one or more digital processors: (a) model the chemical process of the subject industrial plant, including
generating a model that predicts progress of the chemical process, the generated model including a hybrid model formed of a first principles model having at least one element enhanced by a machine learning model of the chemical process, and
(b) based on predictions made by the generated model, enable improvements in performance of the chemical process at the subject industrial plant.
20. A computer program product as claimed in Claim 19 wherein the generated model predicts any one or more of: operating conditions, physical properties, and output of the chemical process; and
the computer code instructions further include instructions to a processor to implement process control by, based on predictions made by the generated model, automatically controlling settings of equipment of the subject industrial plant.
21. A computer program product as claimed in Claim 19 wherein the one element
enhanced by a machine learning model is any of: (i) an input variable based on plant data, and values of the input variable are augmented in training and developing the machine learning model, (ii) a measurement of a physical property of the chemical process, and the machine learning model prediction of the measurement of the physical property is used by the generated model instead of the first principles model prediction of the physical property, and (iii) a quantitative representation of a physical property for which there is no known measurement in plant data for use in the first principles model, and the machine learning model prediction of measurements of the physical property is used in the first principles model.
22. A computer program product as claimed in Claim 19 wherein the improvements in performance of the chemical process include any of: enabling a process engineer to troubleshoot the chemical process, debottlenecking a portion of the chemical process, and optimizing performance of the chemical process at the subject industrial plant.
</claims>
</document>
