<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H50/00,G16H50/20,G16H50/30,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEUROSPRING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BORSODY, MARK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69643751
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDICAL DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF DISEASE
</title>

<abstract>
A medical device comprising a memory, a processor communicably coupled to the memory, and the processor configured to execute instructions to evaluate one or more patient data inputs relating to a first specific disease, compare the one or more data inputs to a set of values from at least one database using at least one computational algorithm, train the at least one computational algorithm for estimating a diagnosis of the patient based on the first specific disease, determine a first diagnostic score for the patient for the specific disease using the at least one computational algorithm, diagnose the patient as having the specific disease when the first diagnostic score for the first specific disease is above a first value, and provide the diagnosis for the patient as an output.
</abstract>

<claims>
Wherein, I claim:
1. A medical device comprising:
a memory;
a processor communicably coupled to the memory, and
the processor configured to execute instructions to:
evaluate one or more patient data inputs relating to a first specific disease;
compare the one or more data inputs to a set of values from at least one database using at least one computational algorithm;
train the at least one computational algorithm for estimating the diagnosis of the patient based on the first specific disease;
determine a first diagnostic score for the patient for the specific disease using the at least one computational algorithm;
diagnose the patient as having the specific disease when the first diagnostic score for the first specific disease is above a first value; and
provide the diagnosis for the patient as an output.
2. The medical device of claim 1 wherein the processor is further configured to execute instructions to diagnose the patient as not having the specific disease when the diagnostic score is below a second value, with the second value being below the first value.
3. The medical device of any claims 1 to 2 wherein the processor is further configured to execute instructions to diagnose the patient as inconclusive when the diagnostic score is between the first value and the second value.
4. The medical device of any claims 1 to 3 further comprising one of a mirror measuring at least one square foot of reflective area, a clock, a refrigerator, a sink, a toilet, a chair, a bed, a television, a microwave oven, a floor standing or counter electric light, and a light fixture attached to the ceiling.
5. The medical device of any claims 1 to 3 further comprising straps to allow the medical device to be worn on the wrist.
6. The medical device of any claims 1 to 5, wherein the data inputs are one of demographic data, symptoms, medical history elements, examination findings, and diagnostic testing results, or some combination thereof.
7. The medical device of any claims 1 to 6, wherein the data inputs are one of automatically acquired by the medical device and are received from one of the patient, a third party, and both the patient and the third party.
8. The medical device of any claims 1 to 7 wherein the medical device initiates interaction with the patient with a spoken prompt.
9. The medical device of any claims 1 to 8, wherein the likelihood of diagnosis of a specific disease is increased when a positive symptom of that disease is present, and the likelihood of the diagnosis of the specific disease is decreased when separate symptom of a mimic disease is present.
10. The medical device of any claims 1 to 9, wherein the first specific disease is one of
a neurological abnormality,
heart failure,
asthma,
a myocardial infarction, and
an infection.
11. The medical device of any claims 1 to 10, where the specific disease is a neurological abnormality and the neurological abnormality is one of acute stroke, transient ischemic attack, seizure, demyelinating diseases, multiple sclerosis, traumatic brain injury, and brain tumor, or some combination of each.
12. The medical device of any claims 1 to 11, wherein the medical device automatically evaluates the patient for an initial sign of one or more of the specific diseases of conditions, and automatically triggers a more comprehensive evaluation when the initial sign is detected.
13. The medical device of claim 12, wherein one of
abnormal body temperature is assessed as an initial sign of infection;
one of alterations in gait, speech, and extremity movements, or some combination thereof are assessed as initial signs of a neurological abnormality;
one of breathing rates, interruptions in speech, and both are assessed as initial signs of worsening heart failure; one of shortness-of-breath, labored breathing, and both are assessed as initial signs of an impending or actual asthma atack; and
one of gripping the chest, facial expressions indicative of pain, rapid breathing, flushing, and / or sweatiness, or some combination thereof are assessed as initial signs of myocardial infarction.
14. The medical device of any of claims 1 to 13, when the device diagnoses the patient as having the first specific disease of condition, the medical device one of
determines an appropriate medication to be taken by the patient and informs the patient, and
determines an appropriate medication to be taken by the patient, informs the patient, and then dispenses the medication directly also.
15. The medical device of any claims 1-14 wherein the processor is further configured to execute instructions to evaluate the patient for a likelihood of a second disease that is a mimic to the first disease, and a diagnosis of the first disease is accompanied by an alert when the likelihood of an alternative diagnosis of the mimic condition is above one of 25%, 50%, 75%, and 90%.
16. The medical device of any claims 1 - 15, wherein the at least one computational algorithm includes one or more of an artificial neural network, a support-vector machine (SVM), a NuSVM, a linear SVM, a Naive Bayes (NB) algorithm, a Gaussian NB, a multinomial NB computation algorithm, a multiclass SVM, a directed acyclic graph SVM (DAGSVM), a structured SVM, a least-squares support-vector machine (LS-SVM), a Bayesian SVM, a transductive support-vector machine, a support-vector clustering (SVC), a classification SVM Type 1 (C-SVM classification), a classification SVM Type 2 (nu-SVM classification), a regression SVM Type 1 (epsilon-SVM regression), and a regression SVM Type 2 (nu-SVM regression).
17. The medical device of any claims 1 - 16, wherein the processor is further configured to send the diagnosis to a medical facility via a wired or wireless network, and the medical device further comprises means to communicate the diagnosis via the network.
18. The medical device of any claims 1 - 17, wherein the processor is further configured to execute a second computational algorithm to determine a second diagnostic score for the patient when the first diagnostic score is determined to be one of
below the first value, below the first value and above the second value, and
below both the first value and the second value.
19. The medical device of any claims 1 - 18, wherein the processor is further configured to execute a plurality of computational algorithms, each using data from a plurality of databases,
determine a diagnostic score for the patient for the first specific disease for each of the computational algorithms, and
diagnose the patient as having the specific disease when one of a majority and all of the computational algorithms' diagnostic scores for the specific disease is above the first value.
20. The medical device of any claims 1 - 19, wherein the processor is further configured to input one or more syndrome elements encompassed by a historical definition of a classic syndrome related to the first specific disease;
allocate syndrome elements points proportionate to a known or documented prevalence in a population of patients confirmed to have the classic syndrome;
determine if the patient has the syndrome elements;
calculate a probability of diagnosis of the patient having the classic syndrome as a ratio of total number of points representing the syndrome elements identified for the patient divided by a total number of points of all the syndrome elements encompassed by the historical definition of the classic syndrome, and
input the probability of diagnosis of the classic syndrome as a data input relating to the first disease.
21. The medical device of any claims 1-20, wherein the first computational algorithm and second computational algorithm are part of a plurality of computational algorithms that refine a diagnosis for the patient in a serial manner.
22. The medical device of any claims 1-21, wherein the first computational algorithm bases its calculations upon a common set of data inputs from multiple databases, and wherein the second computational algorithm bases its calculations upon all the data inputs from a single database.
23. The medical device of any of claims 1-22, wherein the second computational algorithm is chosen from a plurality of computational algorithms each basing its calculations upon all the data inputs from separate databases, and wherein the second computational algorithm selection is based on similarity between the patient's data inputs and the data inputs of the database used by the second computational algorithm.
</claims>
</document>
