<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W60/00,G01S13/931,G06K9/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/00,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WAYMO
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAO, JUNHUA
SONG YANG
LI, CONGCONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69191222
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NEURAL NETWORKS FOR COARSE- AND FINE-OBJECT CLASSIFICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject matter disclosed herein include methods, systems, and other techniques for training, in a first phase, an object classifier neural network with a first set of training data, the first set of training data including a first plurality of training examples, each training example in the first set of training data being labeled with a coarse-object classification; and training, in a second phase after completion of the first phase, the object classifier neural network with a second set of training data, the second set of training data including a second plurality of training examples, each training example in the second set of training data being labeled with a fine-object classification.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for training an object classifier neural network capable of generating coarse-object classifications and fine-object classifications, comprising:
training, in a first phase, the object classifier neural network with a first set of training data, the first set of training data including a first plurality of training examples, each training example in the first set of training data being labeled with a coarse-object classification; and training, in a second phase after completion of the first phase, the object classifier neural network with a second set of training data, the second set of training data including a second plurality of training examples, each training example in the second set of training data being labeled with a fine-object classification,
wherein training the object classifier neural network in the second phase comprises, for each training example, adjusting parameters of one or more first portions of the neural network that are assigned to the fine-object classification indicated by the label of the training example without adjusting parameters of one or more second portions of the neural network that are not assigned to the fine-object classification indicated by the label of the training example.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more first portions of the neural network and the one or more second portions of the neural network are channel encoder subnetworks that are each configured to process a different channel of sensor data.
3. The method of any of claims 1-2, wherein adjusting parameters of the one or more first portions of the neural network comprises adjusting parameters of one or more channel encoder subnetworks that are configured to generate outputs that would be processed during an inference phase to generate the fine-object classification indicated by the label of the training example.
4. The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein freezing parameters of the one or more second portions of the neural network comprises freezing parameters of one or more channel encoder subnetworks that are not configured to generate outputs that would be processed during an inference phase to generate the fine-object classification indicated by the label of the training example.
5. The method of any of claims 1-4, further comprising training one or more fine-object classifiers that are separate from the object classifier neural network, wherein the one or more fine-object classifiers are configured to process one or more channels of encoded sensor data to generate a fine object classification, the one or more channels of encoded sensor data generated by corresponding channel encoders within the object classifier neural network.
6. The method of any of claims 1-5, wherein the first phase of training the object classifier neural network is complete when at least a minimum number of training examples from the first plurality of training samples have been processed with the object classifier neural network, or when the object classifier neural network achieves a minimum
performance criterion in generating coarse-object classifications for a validation sample set.
7. The method of any of claims 1-6, wherein the object classifier neural network is located on an autonomous vehicle, and the coarse-object classifications are selected from a group comprising at least one of a vehicle, a pedestrian, a cyclist, a motorcyclist, a sign, a background, or an animal.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the fine-object classifications are selected from a group comprising at least one of a school bus, an emergency vehicle, a passenger vehicle, an adult, or a child.
9. The method of any of claims 1-8, further comprising:
obtaining a plurality of channels of sensor data, each channel of sensor data representing a different set of measurements of a particular object; and
after completion of the second phase, processing with the object classifier neural network the plurality of channels of sensor data to determine at least one of a coarse-object classification or a fine-object classification of the particular object.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the particular object is an object within a sensing range of an autonomous vehicle, and the plurality of channels of sensor data include a first channel representing measurements from a light detection and ranging (LIDAR) subsystem on the vehicle and a second channel representing measurements from a camera on the vehicle.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising using at least one of the coarse-object classification or the fine-object classification of the particular object to affect a driving decision of an autonomous vehicle.
12. A system for training an object classifier neural network capable of generating coarseobject classifications and fine-object classifications, comprising:
one or more processors; and
one or more computer-readable media having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause performance of operations comprising:
training, in a first phase, the object classifier neural network with a first set of training data, the first set of training data including a first plurality of training examples, each training example in the first set of training data being labeled with a coarse-object classification; and
training, in a second phase after completion of the first phase, the object classifier neural network with a second set of training data, the second set of training data including a second plurality of training examples, each training example in the second set of training data being labeled with a fine-object classification,
wherein training the object classifier neural network in the second phase comprises, for each training example, adjusting parameters of one or more first portions of the neural network that are assigned to the fine-object classification indicated by the label of the training example without adjusting parameters of one or more second portions of the neural network that are not assigned to the fine-object classification indicated by the label of the training example.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more first portions of the neural network and the one or more second portions of the neural network are channel encoder subnetworks that are each configured to process a different channel of sensor data.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein adjusting parameters of the one or more first portions of the neural network comprises adjusting parameters of one or more channel encoder subnetworks that are configured to generate outputs that would be processed during an inference phase to generate the fine-object classification indicated by the label of the training example.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein freezing parameters of the one or more second portions of the neural network comprises freezing parameters of one or more channel encoder subnetworks that are not configured to generate outputs that would be processed during an inference phase to generate the fine-object classification indicated by the label of the training example.
16. The system of any of claims 12-15, wherein the operations further comprise training one or more fine-object classifiers that are separate from the object classifier neural network, wherein the one or more fine-object classifiers are configured to process one or more channels of encoded sensor data to generate a fine object classification, the one or more channels of encoded sensor data generated by corresponding channel encoders within the object classifier neural network.
17. The system of any of claims 12-16, wherein the first phase of training the object classifier neural network is complete when at least a minimum number of training examples from the first plurality of training samples have been processed with the object classifier neural network, or when the object classifier neural network achieves a minimum
performance criterion in generating coarse-object classifications for a validation sample set.
18. The system of any of claims 12-17, wherein the object classifier neural network is located on an autonomous vehicle, and the coarse-object classifications are selected from a group comprising at least one of a vehicle, a pedestrian, a cyclist, a motorcyclist, a sign, a background, or an animal.
19. The system of any of claims 12-18, wherein the fine-object classifications are selected from a group comprising at least one of a school bus, an emergency vehicle, a passenger vehicle, an adult, or a child.
20. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by one or more processors, cause performance of operations for training an object classifier neural network capable of generating coarse-object classifications and fine-object classifications, the operations comprising: training, in a first phase, the object classifier neural network with a first set of training data, the first set of training data including a first plurality of training examples, each training example in the first set of training data being labeled with a coarse-object classification; and training, in a second phase after completion of the first phase, the object classifier neural network with a second set of training data, the second set of training data including a second plurality of training examples, each training example in the second set of training data being labeled with a fine-object classification,
wherein training the object classifier neural network in the second phase comprises, for each training example, adjusting parameters of one or more first portions of the neural network that are assigned to the fine-object classification indicated by the label of the training example without adjusting parameters of one or more second portions of the neural network that are not assigned to the fine-object classification indicated by the label of the training example.
</claims>
</document>
