<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B41/00,E21B43/26,G06N20/00,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HALLIBURTON ENERGY SERVICES GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
WALTERS, HAROLD GRAYSON
FULTON, DWIGHT DAVID
BHARDWAJ, MANISHA
HEIDARI, PEYMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71127802
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HYDRAULIC FRACTURING JOB PLAN REAL-TIME REVISIONS UTILIZING COLLECTED TIME-SERIES DATA
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure is directed to methods to design and revise hydraulic fracturing (HF) job plans. The methods can utilize one or more data sources from public, proprietary, confidential, and historical sources. The methods can build mathematical, statistical, machine learning, neural network, and deep learning models to predict production outcomes based on the data source inputs. In some aspects, the data sources are processed, quality checked, and combined into composite data sources. In some aspects, ensemble modeling techniques can be applied to combine multiple data sources and multiple models. In some aspects, response features can be utilized as data inputs into the modeling process. In some aspects, time-series extracted features can be utilized as data inputs into the modeling process. In some aspects, the methods can be used to build a HF job plan prior to the start of work at a well site. In other aspects, the methods can be used to revise an existing HF job plan in real-time, such as after a treatment cycle, a pumping stage, or a time interval.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method to revise a hydraulic fracturing (HF) job plan for directing operations of well site equipment for a well, comprising:
processing a final first data set, wherein the final first data set is computed from a preliminary first data set comprising estimated production values, reporting issues of a production well, and one or more key performance indicators (KPIs);
processing a time-series data set, wherein the time-series data set is generated from HF pumping data;
building a predictive model, utilizing a predictive data set comprising one or more of the final first data set and the time-series data set; and
revising the HF job plan, utilizing the predictive model.
2. The method as recited in Claim 1, further comprising:
communicating the HF job plan to a well site equipment of the well.
3. The method as recited in Claim 1, wherein the revising occurs after completion of a treatment cycle of the well or after a determined time interval.
4. The method as recited in Claim 1, wherein the building utilizes an ensemble model utilizing a single stage predictive model or a multiple stage predictive model, and wherein the ensemble model consolidates one or more modeling techniques and data sources.
5. The method as recited in Claim 4, wherein the modeling techniques are one or more of physicsbased methods, numerical estimation methods, mathematical methods, statistical methods, earth models, geospatial models, geological models, reservoir models, and data-driven machine learning models.
6. The method as recited in Claim 4, wherein the data sources are one or more of geospatial location, completion parameters, stimulation parameters, reservoir data, well logs, well directional surveys, drilling parameters, production data, fracture topology, fluid flow and dynamics, distributed acoustic sensing, distributed temperature sensing, well header data, customer data, operator data, and service company data.
7. The method as recited in Claim 1, wherein the building utilizes one or more of a machine learning, neural network, deep learning, or statistical algorithm.
8. The method as recited in Claim 1, wherein the processing a final first data set further comprises:
cleaning the preliminary first data set utilizing statistical techniques; verifying the preliminary first data set utilizing statistical quality check techniques; applying a smoothing technique to the preliminary first data set to generate a smoothed first data set, to realize one or more of reducing statistical noise, correcting erroneous data, and identifying unusable production well data; computing a target production value utilizing the smoothed first data set, wherein the target production value is computed from a well production time interval; and
generating the final first data set utilizing the smoothed first data set and the target production value.
9. The method as recited in Claim 1, wherein the processing the time-series data set further comprises:
cleaning the HF pumping data utilizing statistical techniques;
verifying the HF pumping data utilizing statistical quality check techniques;
sampling the HF pumping data utilizing up sampling or down sampling;
shifting the HF pumping data aligning the HF pumping data with state of a bottom condition of the well; and
generating the time-series data set utilizing the HF pumping data.
10. The method as recited in Claim 9, wherein the shifting further comprises:
scaling the HF pumping data, wherein the scaling utilizes determined value ranges for one or more HF pumping data elements.
11. The method as recited in Claim 1, wherein the predictive data set additionally utilizes a non temporal data set, wherein the non-temporal data set is generated from non-temporal well data.
12. The method as recited in Claim 11, wherein the predictive data set additionally utilizes the non temporal well data set and further comprises:
cleaning the non-temporal well data set utilizing statistical techniques;
verifying the non-temporal well data set utilizing statistical quality check techniques; and
formatting the non-temporal well data set to align with the time-series data set.
13. The method as recited in Claim 1, wherein the building the predictive model further comprises:
compiling the predictive data set by joining the final first data set and the timeseries data set;
partitioning the predictive data set, wherein the partitioning comprises a training data set and a validation data set;
training a learning model utilizing the training data set and the validation data set; and
wherein the building a predictive model utilizes the learning model.
14. The method as recited in Claim 13, wherein the partitioning further comprises a test data set.
15. The method as recited in Claim 13, wherein the learning model is one or more of a deep learning algorithm, a machine learning algorithm, a Bayesian algorithm, a random forest algorithm, a gradient boost algorithm, or a decision tree algorithm. 16. The method as recited in Claim 15, wherein the deep learning algorithm is one or more of a convolutional neural network and recurrent neural network.
17. The method as recited in Claim 1, wherein the processing the time-series data set further comprises:
receiving a first time-series pumping data set;
receiving a second time-series pumping data set;
identifying a first event set, wherein the first event set comprises event time intervals, utilizing the first time-series pumping data set;
training a machine learning model utilizing the first event set;
estimating a second event set, utilizing the second time-series pumping data set and the machine learning model; and
wherein the time-series data set utilizes the second event set.
18. The method as recited in Claim 17, wherein the first time-series pumping data set comprises one or more of treating pressure, slurry rate, and proppant concentration, and wherein the second timeseries pumping data set comprises one or more of treating pressure, slurry rate, and proppant concentration.
19. The method as recited in Claim 17, wherein the first event set and the second event set further comprise event property data.
20. The method as recited in Claim 17, wherein the first event set and the second event set comprise event types of one or more of treatments, diversion cycles, sand slug, minifrac, step-up, stepdown, instantaneous shut-in pressure, breakdown, and screenouts.
21. The method as recited in Claim 17, wherein the first time-series pumping data set and the second time-series pumping data further comprise user defined data, and wherein the first event set and the second event set further comprise user defined data.
22. The method as recited in Claim 1, wherein the revising further comprises:
selecting a target well for application of the HF job plan;
selecting features from the final first data set or the time-series data set, where the features impact the KPIs;
selecting constraints, where the constraints impact the KPIs;
generating one or more scenarios utilizing the features, the constraints, and the predictive model;
building a well production model utilizing the scenarios; and
adjusting the HF job plan utilizing recommendations derived from the well production model. 23. A computer program product having a series of operating instructions stored on a non-transitory computer-readable medium that directs a data processing apparatus when executed thereby to perform operations to design a hydraulic fracturing (HF) job plan to direct operations of well site equipment of a well, having operations comprising:
processing a final first data set, wherein the final first data set is computed from a preliminary first data set comprising estimated production values, reporting issues of a production well, and one or more key performance indicators (KPIs);
processing a time-series data set, wherein the time-series data set is generated from HF pumping data;
building a predictive model, utilizing a predictive data set comprising one or more of the final first data set and the time-series data set; and
revising the HF job plan, utilizing the predictive model.
24. The computer program product as recited in Claim 23, further comprising:
communicating the HF job plan to a well site equipment of the well.
25. The computer program product as recited in Claim 23, wherein the building utilizes an ensemble model utilizing a single stage predictive model or a multiple stage predictive model, and wherein the ensemble model consolidates one or more modeling techniques and data sources.
26. The computer program product as recited in Claim 23, wherein the processing a final first data set further comprises:
cleaning the preliminary first data set utilizing statistical techniques; verifying the preliminary first data set utilizing statistical quality check techniques; applying a smoothing technique to the preliminary first data set to generate a smoothed first data set, to realize one or more of reducing statistical noise, correcting erroneous data, and identifying unusable production well data;
computing a target production value utilizing the smoothed first data set, wherein the target production value is computed from a well production time interval; and
generating the final first data set utilizing the smoothed first data set and the target production value.
27. The computer program product as recited in Claim 23, wherein the processing the time-series data set further comprises:
cleaning the HF pumping data utilizing statistical techniques;
verifying the HF pumping data utilizing statistical quality check techniques;
sampling the HF pumping data utilizing up sampling or down sampling;
shifting the HF pumping data aligning the HF pumping data with state of a bottom condition of the well; and
generating the time-series data set utilizing the HF pumping data. 28. The computer program product as recited in Claim 27, wherein the shifting further comprises: scaling the HF pumping data, wherein the scaling utilizes determined value ranges for one or more HF pumping data elements.
29. The computer program product as recited in Claim 23, wherein the predictive data set additionally utilizes a non-temporal well data set and further comprises:
cleaning the non-temporal well data set utilizing statistical techniques;
verifying the non-temporal well data set utilizing statistical quality check techniques; and
formatting the non-temporal well data set to align with the time-series data set.
30. The computer program product as recited in Claim 23, wherein the building the predictive model further comprises:
compiling the predictive data set by joining the final first data set and the timeseries data set;
partitioning the predictive data set, wherein the partitioning comprises a training data set and a validation data set;
training a learning model utilizing the training data set and evaluating the learning model utilizing the validation data set; and
wherein the building a predictive model utilizes the learning model.
31. The computer program product as recited in Claim 23, wherein the building the predictive model further comprises:
receiving a first time-series pumping data set, wherein the first time-series pumping data set comprises one or more of treating pressure, slurry rate, and proppant concentration;
receiving a second time-series pumping data set, wherein the second time-series pumping data set comprises one or more of treating pressure, slurry rate, and proppant concentration;
identifying a first event set, wherein the first event set comprises event time intervals, utilizing the first time-series pumping data set;
training a machine learning model utilizing the first event set;
estimating a second event set, utilizing the second time-series pumping data set and the machine learning model; and
wherein the building a predictive model utilizes the second event set.
32. The computer program product as recited in Claim 23, wherein the revising further comprises:
selecting a target well for application of the HF job plan;
selecting features from the final first data set or the time-series data set, where the features impact the KPIs;
selecting constraints, where the constraints impact the KPIs; generating one or more scenarios utilizing the features, the constraints, and the predictive model;
building a well production model utilizing the scenarios; and
adjusting the HF job plan utilizing recommendations derived from the well production model.
33. A system to revise a first hydraulic fracturing (HF) job plan for directing operations of well site equipment for a well, comprising:
a data analyzer, operable to generate cleaned data sets by analyzing, cleaning, correcting, and removing outlying data elements from each of received data sets;
a feature selector, operable to identify features utilizing a received job plan objective wherein the features affect the job plan objective, and wherein the features are identified in the cleaned data sets;
a modeler, operable to build predictive models utilizing the cleaned data sets and the features; and
a HF processor, operable to analyze each of the predictive models, operable to select a final predictive model, and operable to output a revised HF job plan.
34. The system as recited in Claim 33, further comprising:
a receiver, operable to receive the received data sets;
a communicator, operable to transmit the final predictive model, and the revised HF job plan; and
a storage medium, operable to store the received data sets, the features, the predictive models, the first HF job plan, and the revised HF job plan.
35. The system as recited in Claim 33, further comprising:
a well controller, operable to receive the predictive model and the revised HF job plan, and execute the HF job plan.
36. The system as recited in Claim 33, wherein the received data sets comprise public, confidential, proprietary, well site location, and historical data sources.
37. The system as recited in Claim 33, further comprising:
a well pumping system, operable to provide pumping data to the data analyzer.
</claims>
</document>
