<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/14,G06F17/16,G06N10/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
1QB INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CRAWFORD, DANIEL J.
NOORI, MOSLEM
OBEROI, JASPREET S.
ZAHEDINEJAD, EHSAN
GHOBADI, Roohollah
VEDAIE, Seyed Shakib
SINGH, Inderpreet
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74040162
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR MAPPING A DATASET FROM A HILBERT SPACE OF A GIVEN DIMENSION TO A HILBERT SPACE OF A DIFFERENT DIMENSION
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method is disclosed for mapping a dataset from a Hilbert space of a given dimension to a Hilbert space of a different dimension, the method comprising obtaining a dataset, for each data sample of the dataset, for a plurality of episodes, generating an encoded sample; configuring an adiabatic quantum device by embedding each encoded sample into a q-body Hamiltonian H representative of an adiabatic quantum device, causing the adiabatic quantum device to evolve from an initial state to a final state; and performing a projective measurement along z axis at the final state to determine the value of each qubit; generating a corresponding binary vector representative of the given data sample in a transformed Hilbert space using the determined value of each qubit at each episode and providing a mapped dataset comprising each of the generated corresponding binary vectors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1 . A computer-implemented method for mapping a dataset from a Hilbert space of a given dimension to a Hilbert space of a different dimension, the method comprising: obtaining a dataset D comprising n data samples
wherein p is the dimension of each data sample; for each data sample xixi of the dataset D, for a plurality of episodes e, generating an encoded sample Ji = Axi + b, wherein A is a q x p matrix comprising elements drawn from a first distribution, q is indicative of a number of qubits available in an adiabatic quantum device and b is a q-dimensional vector comprising elements drawn from a second distribution; configuring the adiabatic quantum device by embedding each encoded sample into a q-body Ising Hamiltonian H representative of the adiabatic quantum device and defined by:
wherein a(t) and b(t) are classical external fields driving the Hamiltonian H(t) over the time span [0,T], and Hi is the initial Hamiltonian and Hf is the final or encoding Hamiltonian defined by:
wherein dx, dz are Pauli-X and Pauli-Z operators, respectively, and hl,m is a parameter which may be defined as a function that depends on the encoded sample values
causing the adiabatic quantum device to evolve from an initial state at ti=0 to a final state at tf =t wherein t £ T; and performing a projective measurement along a z axis at the final state to determine a value of each qubit of the adiabatic quantum device; generating a corresponding binary vector representative of the given data sample xi in a transformed Hilbert space using the determined value of each qubit at each episode e; wherein each generated binary vector corresponds to a mapped data sample; and providing a mapped dataset comprising each of the generated corresponding binary vectors.
2. The computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 1 , wherein the first distribution comprises a parametrized probability distribution; further wherein the elements of the matrix A are drawn from the first distribution using one of a digital computer and a quantum computer.
3. The computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the elements of the matrix A are drawn from the first distribution using the adiabatic quantum device, further wherein the parameters of the first distribution are the parameters of the Hamiltonian representative of the adiabatic quantum device.
4. The computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the elements of the matrix A are drawn from the first distribution using a gate-model quantum computer, further wherein the parameters of the first distribution are the parameters of quantum logic gates.
5. The computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the parameters of the first distribution are adaptive variables.
6. The computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 1 , wherein the obtaining of the dataset comprises at least one of receiving the dataset from a user interacting with a digital computer, obtaining the dataset from a memory unit located in a digital computer and obtaining the dataset from a remote processing device operatively connected with a digital computer.
7. The computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 1 , wherein the configuring of the adiabatic quantum device further comprises: computing a q2-body Ising Hamiltonian for q2 qubits of the adiabatic quantum device, the q2-body Ising Hamiltonian comprising a randomness factor; generating a global Hamiltonian comprising the q-body Ising Hamiltonian, the computed q2-body Ising Hamiltonian and interacting terms between the q2-body Ising Hamiltonian and the q-body Ising Hamiltonian H; wherein the configuration of the adiabatic quantum device is performed using the global Hamiltonian.
8. The computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the configuring of the adiabatic quantum device further comprises: computing a q3-body Ising Hamiltonian for q3 qubits of the adiabatic quantum device, the q3-body Ising Hamiltonian comprising at least two adaptive variables and adding the q3-body Ising Hamiltonian and interaction terms between the q3-body Ising Hamiltonian and the the q2-body Ising Hamiltonian and the q-body Ising Hamiltonian H to the global Hamiltonian; wherein the at least two adaptive variables are updated based on a performance obtained using a machine learning algorithm applied on the generated mapped dataset.
9. The computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the q2-body Ising Hamiltonian is defined by wherein r is a
randomness factor, are real numbers and < k, w > goes over pair-wise
interacting qubits.
10. The computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the and are drawn randomly from a classical probability distribution.
1 1 . The computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the and are drawn randomly from {0,1 ,-1 }.
12. The computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the q3-body Ising Hamiltonian is defined by wherein a and b are
the adaptive variables and < j, k > goes over pair-wise interacting qubits.
13. The computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 1 , wherein hl,m is equal to an absolute mean of the values.
14. The computer-implemented method as claimed in any one of claims 5, 8 and 12, wherein a dropout technique is used for adaptive variables of the method.
15. A digital computer comprising: a central processing unit; a display device; a communication port for operatively connecting the digital computer to an adiabatic quantum device; a memory unit comprising an application for mapping a dataset from a Hilbert space of a given dimension to a Hilbert space of a different dimension, the application comprising: instructions for obtaining a dataset D comprising n data samples xi,
. wherein p is the dimension of each data sample;
instructions for, for each data sample xi of the dataset D, instructions for, for a plurality of episodes e, generating an encoded sample Ji = Axi + b, wherein A is a q x p matrix comprising elements drawn from a first distribution, q is indicative of a number of qubits available in an adiabatic quantum device and b is a q-dimensional vector comprising elements drawn from a second distribution; configuring the adiabatic quantum device by embedding each encoded sample into a q-body Hamiltonian H(t) representative of an adiabatic quantum device and defined by:
wherein a(t) and b(t) are classical external fields driving the Hamiltonian H(t) over the time span [0,T], and Hi is the initial Hamiltonian and Hf is the final or encoding Hamiltonian defined as follow:
wherein dx, dz are Pauli-X and Pauli-Z operators, respectively, and hl,m is a parameter which is defined as a function that depends on the encoded sample values j
causing the adiabatic quantum device to evolve from an initial state at ti=0 to a final state at tf=t wherein t £ T; and performing a projective measurement along a z axis at the final state to determine a value of each qubit of the adiabatic quantum device; instructions for generating a corresponding binary vector representative of the given data sample xi in a transformed Hilbert space using the determined value of each qubit at each episode e; wherein each generating binary vector corresponds to a mapping of a corresponding data sample; and instructions for providing a mapped dataset comprising each of the generated corresponding binary vectors.
16. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium for storing computerexecutable instructions which, when executed, cause a digital computer to perform a method for mapping a dataset from a Hilbert space of a given dimension to a Hilbert space of a different dimension, the method comprising: obtaining a dataset D comprising n data samples
wherein p is the dimension of each data sample; for each data sample xi of the dataset D, for a plurality of episodes e, generating an encoded sample Ji = Axi + b, wherein A is a q x p matrix comprising elements drawn from a first distribution, q is indicative of a number of qubits available in an adiabatic quantum device and b is a q-dimensional vector comprising elements drawn from a second distribution; configuring the adiabatic quantum device by embedding each encoded sample into a q-body Hamiltonian H(t) representative of an adiabatic quantum device and defined by:
wherein ait) and bit) are classical external fields driving the Hamiltonian H(t) over the time span [0,T], and Hi is the initial Hamiltonian and Hf is the final or encoding Hamiltonian defined by:
wherein dx, dz are Pauli-X and Pauli-Z operators, respectively, and hl,m is a parameter which is defined as a function that depends on the encoded sample values
causing the adiabatic quantum device to evolve from an initial state at ti=0 to a final state at tf=t wherein t £ T; and performing a projective measurement along a z axis at the final state to determine a value of each qubit of the adiabatic quantum device; generating a corresponding binary vector representative of the given data sample xi in a transformed Hilbert space using the determined value of each qubit at each episode e; wherein each generating binary vector corresponds to a mapping of a corresponding data sample; and providing a mapped dataset comprising each of the generated corresponding binary vectors.
17. A method for training a machine learning model using an adiabatic quantum device, the method comprising: obtaining a dataset D used for training a machine learning model; obtaining a machine learning model to train; mapping the obtained dataset D from a Hilbert space of a given dimension to a Hilbert space of a different dimension comprising a quantum feature space using the method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14; training the obtained machine learning model using the mapped dataset.
18. A method for performing a machine learning task, the method comprising: providing a machine learning model trained according to the method as claimed in claim 17; and using the machine learning model trained for performing the machine learning task.
</claims>
</document>
