<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MUJUMDAR, ANUSHA PRADEEP
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BADRINATH, RAMAMURTHY
MOHALIK, SWARUP KUMAR
MUJUMDAR, ANUSHA PRADEEP
YAJNANARAYANA, VIJAYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70853395
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND CREW ALLOCATION SYSTEM FOR ALLOCATING A FIELD TECHNICIAN FOR EXECUTING A WORK ORDER
</title>

<abstract>
A method and a crew allocation system (100) for allocating a field technician for executing a work order on equipment (102) in a communication network (104). A set of tasks to be performed when executing the work order is identified and skills required for performing the identified tasks are also determined. Competencies of a set of candidate field technicians with respect to the required skills are further obtained (1:3), e.g. from a stored competency matrix, and at least one of the candidate field technicians is allocated (1:4) for executing (1:6) the work order on the equipment, based on the required skills and obtained competencies. The competency of the allocated field technician(s) may be updated (1:8) based on an execution report generated after execution of the work order.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for allocating a field technician for executing a work order on equipment (102) in a communication network (104), the method comprising:
- identifying (200) a set of tasks to be performed when executing the work order, - determining (202) skills required for performing the identified tasks,
- obtaining (204) competencies of a set of candidate field technicians with respect to the required skills, and
- allocating (206) at least one of the candidate field technicians for executing the work order, based on the required skills and obtained competencies. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said competencies of the candidate field technicians are obtained (1:3) from a database (100A) which is updated (210, 1:8) for the at least one allocated field technician based on an execution report (1:7) generated after the work order has been executed.
3. A method according to claim 2, wherein the database comprises a competency matrix (302) where the competencies of the candidate field technicians are maintained in terms of skill ratings for the candidate field technicians and a set of predefined skills.
4. A method according to claim 3, wherein the competency matrix is updated for the at least one allocated field technician when the work order has been executed.
5. A method according to any of claims 1-4, wherein the skills required for performing the identified tasks are determined by generating a requirements matrix (300) for the work order, the requirements matrix comprising a level of skill required for performing each task of the work order.
6. A method according to claim 3 and 5, wherein the at least one field technician is allocated by matching the skill ratings of candidate field technicians in the competency matrix with the required levels of skills in the requirements matrix.
7. A method according to claim 6, wherein the levels of skill in the requirements matrix are predicted by applying a machine learning model on the work order, wherein the machine learning model has been trained by a history of previously executed work orders.
8. A method according to any of claims 1-7, wherein the skills required for performing the identified tasks are determined based on a task skills matrix (304) indicating whether a skill is required or not for a set of predefined task types.
9. A method according to claim 8, wherein the task skills matrix is updated if execution of the work order indicates that the requirement of skill for a task type needs to be changed. 10. A crew allocation system (600) arranged to allocate a field technician for executing a work order on equipment in a communication network, wherein the crew allocation system is configured to:
- identify (600A) a set of tasks to be performed when executing the work order,
- determine (600B) skills required for performing the identified tasks, - obtain (600C) competencies of a set of candidate field technicians with respect to the required skills, and
- allocate (600D) at least one of the candidate field technicians for executing the work order, based on the required skills and obtained competencies.
11. A crew allocation system (600) according to claim 10, wherein the crew allocation system is configured to obtain said competencies of the candidate field technicians from a database, and to update said database for the at least one allocated field technician based on an execution report generated after the work order has been executed.
12. A crew allocation system (600) according to claim 11, wherein the database comprises a competency matrix where the competencies of the candidate field technicians are maintained in terms of skill ratings for the candidate field technicians and a set of predefined skills.
13. A crew allocation system (600) according to claim 12, wherein the crew allocation system is configured to update the competency matrix for the at least one allocated field technician when the work order has been executed.
14. A crew allocation system (600) according to any of claims 10-13, wherein the crew allocation system is configured to determine the skills required for performing the identified tasks by generating a requirements matrix for the work order, the requirements matrix comprising a level of skill required for performing each task of the work order.
15. A crew allocation system (600) according to claim 12 and 14, wherein the crew allocation system is configured to allocate the at least one field technician by matching the skill ratings of candidate field technicians in the competency matrix with the required levels of skills in the requirements matrix.
16. A crew allocation system (600) according to claim 16, wherein the crew allocation system is configured to predict the levels of skill in the requirements matrix by applying a machine learning model on the work order, wherein the machine learning model has been trained by a history of previously executed work orders.
17. A crew allocation system (600) according to any of claims 10-16, wherein the crew allocation system is configured to determine the skills required for performing the identified tasks based on a task skills matrix indicating whether a skill is required or not for a set of predefined task types. 18. A crew allocation system (600) according to claim 17, wherein the crew allocation system is configured to update the task skills matrix if execution of the work order indicates that the requirement of skill for a task type needs to be changed.
19. A computer program comprising instructions which, when executed on at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to carry out the method according to any one of claims 1-9.
20. A carrier containing the computer program of claim 19, wherein the carrier is one of an electronic signal, optical signal, radio signal, or computer readable storage medium.
</claims>
</document>
