<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S19/07,G01S19/20,G01S19/42
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Navigs Oy
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIPASTI LAURI
IHONEN MIIKA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70922072
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VERIFYING POSITIONING DATA
</title>

<abstract>
A method comprising determining, by a positioning unit, a first location and a second location, wherein the first location is determined by a first receiver that is of a first implementation based on a first satellite-based positioning system and the second location is determined by a second receiver that is of a second implementation based on the first satellite-based positioning system; comparing the first location and the second location and if the second location is within a threshold deviation from the first location determining that the first location is reliable.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising
determining, by a positioning unit, a first location and a second location, wherein the first location is determined by a first receiver, that is of a first implementation, based on a first satellite-based positioning system and the second location is determined by a second receiver, that is of a second implementation, based on the first satellite-based positioning system;
comparing the first location and the second location and if the second location is within a threshold deviation from the first location
determining that the first location is reliable.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the first receiver or the second receiver further receives a real-time correction message.
3. A method according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising verifying at least one of movement, position and orientation of a self-driving vehicle based on determining that the first location is reliable.
4. A method according to any previous claim further comprising determining that the first location is not reliable if the second location is not within the threshold deviation from the first location.
5. A method according to claim 4 further comprising transmitting an indication regarding the determination that the first location is not reliable.
6. A method according to claim 4 or 5 further comprising obtaining data from one or more sensors and determining, based on the obtained data, if the first position is reliable.
7. A method according to claim 6 when dependent on claim 3, wherein the one or more sensors are comprised in the self-driving vehicle.
8. A method according to any previous claim wherein the first satellitebased positioning system is global positioning system.
9. A method according to any previous claim, wherein the first receiver and the second receiver are connected to a shared antenna.
10. A method according to any previous claim, further comprising determining, by the positioning unit, a third location by a third receiver that is of a third implementation based on the first satellite-based positioning system, and comparing the first location and the third location and if the second location and the thirds location are within the threshold deviation from the first location
determining that the first location is reliable.
11. A method according to claim 11, wherein if at least one of the second or the third location is not within the threshold deviation from the first location, determining that the first location is not reliable.
12. A method according to any of claim 3 to 11, wherein the self-driving vehicle is an agricultural vehicle or a vessel.
13. An apparatus comprising means for
determining, by a positioning unit, a first location and a second location, wherein the first location is determined by a first receiver, that is of a first implementation, based on a first satellite-based positioning system and the second location is determined by a second receiver, that is of a second implementation, based on the first satellite-based positioning system;
comparing the first location and the second location and if the second location is within a threshold deviation from the first location
determining that the first location is reliable.
14. An apparatus according to claim 13, wherein at least one of the first receiver or the second receiver further receives a real-time correction message.
15. An apparatus according to claim 13 or 14, further comprising means for verifying at least one of movement, position and orientation of a self-driving vehicle based on determining that the first location is reliable.
16. An apparatus according to any of claims 13 to 15 further comprising means for determining that the first location is not reliable if the second location is not within the threshold deviation from the first location.
17. An apparatus according to any of claims 13 to 16 further comprising means for transmitting an indication regarding the determination that the first location is not reliable.
18. An apparatus according to any of claims 13 to 17 further comprising means for obtaining data from one or more sensors and determining, based on the obtained data, if the first position is reliable.
19. An apparatus according to any of claim 18 when dependent on claim 15, wherein the one or more sensors are comprised in the self-driving vehicle.
20. An apparatus according to any of claims 13 to 19 wherein the first satellite-based positioning system is global positioning system.
21. An apparatus according to any of claims 13 to 20, wherein the first receiver and the second receiver are connected to a shared antenna.
22. An apparatus according to any of claims 13 to 21, further comprising means for: determining, by the positioning unit, a third location by a third receiver, that is of a third implementation, based on the first satellite-based positioning system, and
comparing the first location and the third location and if the second location and the third location are within the threshold deviation from the first location determining that the first location is reliable.
23. An apparatus according to claim 22, wherein if at least one of the second or the third location is not within the threshold deviation from the first location, determining that the first location is not reliable.
24. An apparatus according to any of claim 15 to 23, wherein the self driving vehicle is an agricultural vehicle or a vessel. 25. A computer program product which when executed by a computing apparatus causes the apparatus to perform:
determining, by a positioning unit, a first location and a second location, wherein the first location is determined by a first receiver that is of a first implementation based on a first satellite-based positioning system and the second location is determined by a second receiver that is of a second implementation based on the first satellite-based positioning system;
comparing the first location and the second location, and if the second location is within a threshold deviation from the first location,
determining that the first location is reliable.
</claims>
</document>
