<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06,G06Q50/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STITCH FIX
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARROS, Allison
PARKER, Hilary
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72513916
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EXTENDING MACHINE LEARNING TRAINING DATA TO GENERATE AN ARTIFICAL INTELLGENCE RECOMMENDATION ENGINE
</title>

<abstract>
A catalog of physical items associated with a target user is accessed. At least a portion of the catalog is at least in part automatically generated based on a retention of one or more of the physical items provided to the target user. A machine learning model trained using outfit combination information gathered from other users is used to automatically determine for the target user, at least a portion of one or more recommended outfit combinations of a plurality of physical items among the physical items within the catalog. An indication of a selected one of the one or more recommended outfit combinations is provided to the target user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising:
accessing a catalog of physical items associated with a target user, wherein at least a portion of the catalog is at least in part automatically generated based on a retention of one or more of the physical items provided to the target user;
using a machine learning model trained using outfit combination information gathered from other users to automatically determine for the target user, at least a portion of one or more recommended outfit combinations of a plurality of physical items among the physical items within the catalog; and
providing to the target user an indication of a selected one of the one or more recommended outfit combinations.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the one or more physical items were selected to be provided to the target user based at least in part on a different machine learning model trained using retention data associated with at least a portion of the other users.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the outfit combination information gathered from the other users is a selected subset among a larger set of available outfit combination information for a group of users that includes at least the other users.
4. The method of claim 1 , wherein the outfit combination information gathered from the other users is selected for use in training the machine learning model including by identifying one or more defining features of the target user and determining the other users that share the one or more defining features.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is one of a plurality of available machine learning models and the machine learning model is selected for use based on a user segment corresponding to the target user.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein each of the plurality of available machine learning models corresponds to different user segments.
7. The method of claim 1 , further comprising receiving a feedback of the selected one of the one or more recommended outfit combinations from the target user.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the feedback includes an outfit combination style preference of the target user.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the feedback includes a description of a modified outfit combination based on the selected one of the one or more recommended outfit combinations.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving from the target user a submission describing one or more additional physical items; and
updating the catalog of physical items associated with the target user to include the one or more additional physical items.
11. The method of claim 1 , wherein the indication of the selected one of the one or more recommended outfit combinations is a rendering of the selected recommended outfit combination on a three-dimensional model of the target user.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
receiving a command to manipulate the three-dimensional model of the target user; modifying the three-dimensional model of the target user based on the received command; and
rendering a new image of the selected recommended outfit combination on the modified three-dimensional model corresponding to a new perspective of the modified threedimensional model.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving a weather context for the target user, wherein the recommended outfit combinations are automatically determined based at least in part on the received weather context.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving one or more shared calendar events of the target user, wherein the recommended outfit combinations are automatically determined based at least in part on the received one or more shared calendar events.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the one or more shared calendar events include a wedding, a business meeting, a vacation, or an exercise class.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving a specification of a recently worn item by the target user, wherein the recommended outfit combinations are automatically determined based at least in part on excluding the recently worn item from the catalog of physical items associated with the target user until a time threshold has elapsed.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein a delivery time of the indication of the selected one of the one or more recommended outfit combinations is configured by the target user.
18. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a packing list of physical items corresponding to the selected one of the one or more recommended outfit combinations.
19. A method, comprising:
accessing a catalog of physical items associated with a target user, wherein at least a portion of the catalog is at least in part automatically generated based on a retention of one or more of the physical items provided to the target user;
using a machine learning model trained using outfit combination information gathered from other users to automatically determine for the target user, at least a portion of one or more recommended outfit combinations of a plurality of physical items among the physical items within the catalog;
providing to a reviewer a listing of the one or more recommended outfit combinations;
receiving from the reviewer an identification of a subset of the one or more recommended outfit combinations to be provided to the target user; and
providing the identified subset of the one or more recommended outfit combinations to the target user.
20. A method, comprising:
selecting a product item from an inventory based on a prediction score for a target user;
accessing a catalog of physical items associated with the target user, wherein at least a portion of the catalog is at least in part automatically generated based on a retention of one or more of the physical items provided to the target user;
using a machine learning model trained using outfit combination information gathered from other users to automatically determine for the target user, at least a portion of one or more recommended outfit combinations of a plurality of physical items among the physical items within the catalog, wherein the one or more recommended outfit combinations each include the selected product item; and
providing to the target user the product item and an indication of a selected one of the one or more recommended outfit combinations.
</claims>
</document>
