<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q50/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KLOS, HANS-HENNING
BÄR, FELIX
BÜRGER, Niklas
SCHNITTGER, Dr. Jens
PAULITSCH, Dr. Christoph
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66476442
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING PREDICTIONS OF KEY PER-FORMANCE INDICATORS OF A COMPLEX MANUFACTURING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for providing predictions of key performance indicators, KPI, of a product variant, PV, of a product family, PF, to be manufactured by a complex manufacturing system, MSYS, in a manufacturing process, MP, the method comprising the steps of providing (SI) a manufacturing operation model, MOpM, for each manufacturing operation type, MOT, used to manufacture a product variant, PV, of the product family, PF; providing (S2) by the complex manufacturing system, MSYS, measured contributions to key performance indicators, KPI, process context data, PCD, and process execution data, PED, of manufacturing operations, MO; learning (S3) automatically model parameters, p, of the provided manufacturing operation models, MOpM, based on collected process con- text data, PCD, collected process execution data, PED, and measured contributions to key performance indicators, KPI, to update the manufacturing operation models, MOpM; and evaluating (S4) an updated production efficiency model, PEM, combining updated manufacturing models, MM, including the updated manufacturing operation models, MOpM, to calculate the predictions of the key performance indicators, KPI, of the product variant, PV, to be manufactured by said complex manufacturing system, MSYS, depending on a product configuration of the respective product variant, PV.
</abstract>

<claims>
Patent Claims
1. A method for increasing the production efficiency of a complex manufacturing system, MSYS, said method being configured for providing predictions of key performance indicators, KPI, of a product variant, PV, of a product family, PF, to be manufactured by machines of the complex manufacturing system, MSYS, in a manufacturing process, MP, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) providing (SI) a processing unit of the MSYS with a manufacturing operation model, MOpM, for each manu facturing operation type, MOT, used to manufacture a product variant, PV, of the product family, PF;
(b) providing ( S2 ) by the complex manufacturing system, MSYS, measured contributions to key performance indi cators, KPI, process context data, PCD, and process execution data, PED, of manufacturing operations, MO;
(c) the processing unit learning (S3) automatically model parameters, p, of the provided manufacturing opera tion models, MOpM, based on collected process context data, PCD,
and collected process execution data, PED, and meas ured contributions to key performance indicators,
KPI, to update the manufacturing operation models, MOpM; and
(d) evaluating (S4) an updated production efficiency mod el, PEM, combining updated manufacturing models, MM, including the updated manufacturing operation models, MOpM, to calculate the predictions of the key performance indicators, KPI, of the product variant, PV, to be manufactured by said complex manufacturing system, MSYS, depending on a product configuration of the re spective product variant, PV;
wherein the key performance indicators, KPI, predict ed for different production variants PDV of the same product variant PV, are evaluated to select automati cally by the complex manufacturing system MSYS, the most efficient production variant PDV;
(e) manufacturing by the MSYS the product variant ac
cording to the selected production variant.
2. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1
wherein the key performance indicators, KPI, predicted for different product variants, PV, of the same product family, PF, are evaluated to select a product variant,
PV, manufactured by the complex manufacturing system,
MSYS .
3. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the measured contributions to key performance in dicators, KPI, the process context data, PCD, and the process execution data, PED, are collected during manu facturing processes, MP, having been executed to manufac ture product variants, PV, of the same product family,
PF.
4. The computer-implemented method according to any of the preceding claims 1 to 3 wherein the key performance indi cators, KPI, depend on efficiency function values, EFV, measured during manufacturing of the product variant, PV.
5. The computer-implemented method according to claim 3 wherein the provided process context data, PCD, collected during a manufacturing process, MP, to manufacture a product variant, PV, of the same product family, PF, com prise
a sequence and structure of the manufacturing opera tions, MO, performed during the respective manufac turing process, MP;
a configuration of the product variant, PV, manufac tured by the sequence of manufacturing operations,
MO; and
time context data indicating a time when the manufac turing process, MP, of the product variant, PV, of the same product family, PF, was executed.
6. The computer-implemented method according to any of the preceding claims 1 to 5 wherein the process execution da ta PED, of the manufacturing operation model, MOpM, com prise continuous and/or discrete variables.
7. The computer-implemented method according to any of the preceding claims 1 to 6 wherein the manufacturing opera tion MO specific contributions to key performance indica tors, KPI, and process execution data, PED, are provided
( S2 ) by a manufacturing execution system, MES, of the complex manufacturing system, MSYS.
8. The computer-implemented method according to claim 7
wherein the measured contributions to key performance in dicators, KPI, provided by the manufacturing execution system, MES, of the complex manufacturing system, MSYS, are derived from measurement data provided by sensors of the complex manufacturing system, MSYS.
9. The computer-implemented method according to any of the preceding claims 5 to 8 wherein the sequence and struc ture of the manufacturing operations, MO, forming part of the process context data, PCD, are provided by a product lifecycle management, PLM, system of the complex manufac turing system, MSYS.
10. The computer-implemented method according to any of the preceding claims 1 to 9 wherein learning (S3) of the mod el parameters, p, of the manufacturing operation models, MOpM, comprises an iterative adaption of the model param eters, p.
11. The computer-implemented method according to claim 10 wherein the model parameters, p, are adapted iteratively by performing a regression procedure.
12. The computer-implemented method according to claim 10 wherein the model parameters, p, of the manufacturing op eration models, MOpM, are adapted iteratively by using a neural network, NN, decision trees or a support vector machine, SVM.
13. The computer-implemented method according to claim 12
wherein the neural network, NN, comprises a feedforward neural network or a recurrent neural network.
14. The computer-implemented method according to any of the preceding claims 1 to 13 wherein the manufacturing pro cess, MP, comprises one or more manufacturing process cy cles providing data combined to adapt the model parame ters, p, of the manufacturing operation model, MOpM, or used to adapt the model parameters, p, of the manufactur ing operation model, MOpM, for each manufacturing process cycle .
15. A prediction apparatus adapted to provide predictions of key performance indicators, KPI, of product variants, PV, of a product family, PF, to be produced by a complex man ufacturing system, MSYS, providing measured contributions to key performance indicators, KPI, process context data, PCD, and process execution data, PED, of manufacturing operations, MO, collected during manufacturing processes, MP, executed to manufacture product variants, PVs, of said product family, PF,
said prediction apparatus comprising a processing unit, PU, adapted to process the measured contributions to key performance indicators, KPI, the process context data, PCD, and the process execution data, PED, to learn auto matically model parameters, p, of manufacturing operation models, MOpM, of manufacturing operation types, MOT, used to manufacture a product variant, PV, of said product family, PF, to update the manufacturing operation models, MOpM, and further adapted to evaluate an updated produc tion efficiency model, PEM, combining updated manufactur ing models, MM, including the updated manufacturing oper ation models, MOpM', to calculate predictions of key per formance indicators, KPI, of a product variant, PV, to be manufactured by said complex manufacturing system, MSYS, depending on a product configuration of said product var iant, PV.
16. The prediction apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the key performance indicators, KPI, predicted for dif ferent product variants, PV, of the same product family, PF, are evaluated by said processing unit, PU, to select a product variant, PV, manufactured by the complex manu facturing system, MSYS, and/or a production variant, PDV
</claims>
</document>
