<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/543,G01N35/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
OZCAN, AYDOGAN
DI CARLO, DINO
GARNER, OMAI
JOUNG, HYOU-ARM
BALLARD, Zachary
GONCHAROV, Artem
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73553042
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTATIONAL SENSING WITH A MULTIPLEXED FLOW ASSAYS FOR HIGH-SENSITIVITY ANALYTE QUANTIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system for detecting the presence of and/or quantifying the amount or concentration of one or more analytes in a sample includes a flow assay cartridge having a multiplexed sensing membrane that has immunoreaction or biological reaction spots of varying conditions spatially arranged across the surface of the membrane defining an optimized spot map. A reader device is provided that uses a camera to image the multiplexed sensing membrane. Image processing software obtains normalized pixel intensity values of the plurality of immunoreaction or biological reaction spots and which are used as inputs to one or more trained neural networks configured to generate one or more outputs that: (i) quantify the amount or concentration of the one or more analytes in the sample; and/or (ii) indicate the presence of the one or more analytes in the sample; and/or (ii) determines a diagnostic decision or classification of the sample.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting the presence of and/or quantifying the amount or concentration of one or more analytes in a sample using a flow assay cartridge comprising a plurality of absorption layers including a multiplexed sensing membrane, the method comprising:
providing the flow assay cartridge comprising the multiplexed sensing membrane having a plurality of immunoreaction or biological reaction spots of varying conditions spatially arranged across the surface of the membrane defining a spot map, wherein the spot map comprises a pre-defined spot map of spot locations and spot conditions established for the one or more analytes;
loading a sample and reagent mixture into or onto the flow assay cartridge;
imaging the multiplexed sensing membrane with a reader device configured to illuminate and obtain one or more images of the multiplexed sensing membrane;
subjecting the one or more images to image processing with image processing software to obtain normalized pixel intensity values of the plurality of immunoreaction or biological reaction spots; and
inputting the normalized pixel intensity values to one or more trained neural networks configured to generate one or more outputs that: (i) quantify the amount or concentration of the one or more analytes in the sample, and/or (ii) indicate the presence of the one or more analytes in the sample, and/or (iii) determine a diagnostic decision or classification of the sample. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the pre-defined spot map is determined by machine learning-based optimization. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the amount or concentration of the one or more analytes comprises a qualitative output. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the amount or concentration of the one or more analytes comprises a quantitative output. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more analytes comprises CReactive Protein (CRP).
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the reader device further comprises a portable electronic device having a camera configured to obtain one or more images of the multiplexed sensing membrane. 7. The method of claims 1 or 6, wherein the reader device is configured to obtain a plurality of images of the multiplexed sensing membrane to increase detection sensitivity. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the one or more trained neural networks is executed on the portable electronic device. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the portable electronic device comprises a mobile phone, tablet PC, laptop, camera, or microcomputer. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein the one or more images obtained by the portable electronic device are transferred to a computing device that executes image processing software and the one or more trained neural networks. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more images obtained by the reader device are subject to image processing using an on-board computing device configured to execute image processing software and the one or more trained neural networks. 12. The method of claims 1 or 6 wherein the one or more trained neural networks is executed locally on the reader device or on a personal computer, laptop, tablet, server, or other computing device. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the flow assay cartridge is associated with bar code, QR code, serial number, or other indicia that identifies batch and reagent information. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample and reagent mixture comprises gold nanoparticles conjugated to a molecular probe, an antibody, a plurality of antibodies or probes.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample and reagent mixture comprises a fluorescent reporter conjugated to a molecular probe, an antibody, a plurality of antibodies or probes. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample and reagent mixture comprises quantum dots or fluorescent tags conjugated to a molecular probe, an antibody, a plurality of antibodies or probes. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the flow assay cartridge comprises one or more paper layers disposed therein and containing, in a dry state, a tag or reporter conjugated to a molecular probe, an antibody, a plurality of antibodies or probes. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the tag or reporter comprises gold nanoparticles conjugated to a molecular probe, an antibody, a plurality of antibodies or probes. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the tag or reporter comprises a fluorescent reporter conjugated to a molecular probe, an antibody, a plurality of antibodies or probes. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the tag or reporter comprises a fluorescent reporter conjugated to a molecular probe, an antibody, a plurality of antibodies or probes. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein prior to loading of the sample and reagent mixture, the flow assay cartridge is loaded with a buffer solution. 22. The method of claims 1 or 21, wherein a second buffer solution is loaded into or onto the flow assay cartridge after loading of the sample and reagent mixture. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the immunoreaction or biological reaction spots comprises one or more of a protein, antigen, antibody, nucleic acid, aptamer, and enzyme. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the flow assay cartridge is a vertical flow assay cartridge.
25. The method of claim 1, wherein the flow assay cartridge is a lateral flow assay cartridge. 26. A system for detecting the presence of and/or quantifying the amount or concentration of one or more analytes in a sample comprising:
a flow assay cartridge comprising a multiplexed sensing membrane having a plurality of immunoreaction or biological reaction spots of varying conditions spatially arranged across the surface of the multiplexed sensing membrane defining a spot map, wherein the spot map comprises a pre-defined spot map of spot locations and spot conditions established for the one or more analytes ; and
a reader device comprising a housing defining an interior and having connector adapted to receive a portion of the flow assay cartridge containing the multiplexed sensing membrane, the reader device containing one or more illumination sources located in the interior portion and configured to illuminate the multiplexed sensing membrane and a mounting region configured to receive a portable electronic device having a camera configured to obtain one or more images of the multiplexed sensing membrane. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein the pre-defined spot map is determined by machine learning-based optimization. 28. The system of claim 27, further comprising a portable electronic device having a camera disposed on or in the mounting region of the reader device, the camera of the portable electronic device aligned along an optical path to obtain one or more images of the illuminated multiplexed sensing membrane. 29. The system of claim 27, wherein the reader device is configured to capture a plurality of images of the multiplexed sensing membrane to increase detection sensitivity. 30. The system of claim 27, wherein the reader device further comprises a diffuser configured to diffuse light emitted by the one or more illumination sources. 31. The system of claim 27, the reader device further comprising one or more optical filters for spectrally filtering light from the one or more illumination sources and/or fluorescence signal(s) emitted from fluorescent reporters disposed on the multiplexed sensing membrane. 32. The system of claim 27, further comprising a lens or a set of lenses disposed in the interior of the reader device. 33. The system of claim 27, further comprising a computing device configured to execute image processing software to obtain normalized pixel intensity values of the plurality of immunoreaction or biological reaction spots and further use the normalized pixel intensity values as inputs to one or more trained neural networks configured to generate one or more outputs that: (i) quantify the amount or concentration of the one or more analytes in the sample; and/or (ii) indicate the presence of the one or more analytes in the sample; and/or (ii) determine a diagnostic decision or classification of the sample. 34. The system of claim 27, wherein the flow assay cartridge is associated with bar code, QR code, serial number, or other indicia that identifies batch and reagent information. 35. The system of claim 27, wherein the immunoreaction or biological reaction spots comprise one or more of a protein, antigen, antibody, nucleic acid, aptamer, and enzyme. 36. The system of claim 27, wherein the flow assay cartridge is a vertical flow assay cartridge. 37. The system of claim 27, wherein the flow assay cartridge is a lateral flow assay cartridge. 38. The system of claim 27, wherein portable electronic device comprises a mobile phone having a camera configured to obtain the one or more images of the multiplexed sensing membrane. 39. The system of claim 38, wherein the image processing software and/or one or more trained neural networks is/are executed on the mobile phone.
40. The system of claim 38, wherein the one or more images obtained by the mobile phone are transferred to a separate computing device that executes image processing software and the one or more trained neural networks. 41. The system of claim 27, wherein the portable electronic device comprises a portable camera configured to obtain the one or more images of the multiplexed sensing membrane. 42. The system of claim 27, wherein the reader comprises an on-board computing device configured to execute image processing software and the one or more trained neural networks. 43. The system of claim 27, wherein the flow assay cartridge further comprises one or more porous layers containing, in dry state, state, a tag or reporter conjugated to a molecular probe, an antibody, a plurality of antibodies or probes. 44. The system of claim 43, wherein the conjugated tag or reporter comprises one or more of gold nanoparticles, a quantum dot, or a fluorescent reporter.
</claims>
</document>
