<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0476,A61B5/0496,A61M21/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO
</assignee>

<inventors>
DETERDING, ROBIN
VU, TAM
PHAM, NHAT
HALBOWER, Ann
BANAEI-KASHANI, Farnoush
BUI, Nam Ngoc
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73051668
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A WEARABLE SYSTEM FOR BEHIND-THE-EAR SENSING AND STIMULATION
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments provide novel tools and techniques for behind-the-ear biosignal sensing and stimulation. A system includes a behind-the-ear wearable device further including an ear piece, one or more sensors coupled to a patient behind the ears of the patient and a host machine coupled to the behind-the-ear wearable device. The host machine includes a second processor; and a second computer readable medium in communication with the second processor, the second computer readable medium having encoded thereon a second set of instructions executable by the second processor to obtain the first signal, separate the first signal into one or more individual biosignals, and determine, based on one or more features extracted from the one or more individual biosignals, a wakefulness classification of the patient.
</abstract>

<claims>
What s claimed is:
1 1. A sy stem compri sing :
2 a behxnd-the-ear wearable device comprising:
3 an ear piece configured to be worn behind an ear of a patient;
4 one or more sensors coupled to the ear piece and configured to be in contact
5 with the skin of the patient behind the ear of the patient:
6 a first processors coupled to the one or more sensors; and
7 a first computer readable medium in communication with the first processor,
8 the first computer readable medium having encoded thereon a first set of 9 instaictions executable by the first processor to:
10 obtain, via the one or more sensors, a first signal, wherein the first 1 1 signal comprises one or more combined biosignals, and 12 transmit the first signal;
13 a host machine coupled to the behind~the~ear wearable device, the host machine
14 further comprising:
15 a second processor, and
16 a second computer readable medium in communication with the second
17 processor, the second computer readable medium having encoded thereon
18 a second set of instructions executable by the second processor to:
19 obtain, via the belli nd-the-ear wearable device, the first signal;
20 separate the first signal into one or more individual biosignals; 21 identify, via a machine learning model, one or more features
22 associated with a wakefulness state,
Z,f5 extract the one or more features from each of the one or more
24 individual biosignals; and
25 determine, based on the one or more features extracted from the
26 one or more individual biosignals, a wakefulness classification
27 of the patient.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more individual biosignals includes at least one of an electroencephalogram (EEG) signal electrooculography (BOG) signal, electromyography (EMG) signal, and eleetrodermal activity (EDA) signal.
3. Tire system of claim 1 further comprising a stimulation output array, the stimulation output array comprising at least one of a light source, speaker, electrode, antenna, or magnetic coil.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the ear piece further includes the stimulation output array.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the second set of instructions is further executable by the second processor to:
control operation of the stimulation output array based on the wakefulness
classification,
wherein if the wakefulness classification is indicative of a microsieep state,
controlling the operation of the stimulation output array includes activating one or more of the at least one of the light source, speaker, electrode, antenna, or magnetic coil of the stimulation output array.
6. The system of claim 3, wherein the first set of instructions is further executable by the first processor to:
obtain, from the host machine, the wakefulness classification: and
control the operation of the stimulation output array based on the wakefulness
classification, wherein if the wakefulness classification is indicative of a microsieep state, controlling the operation of the stimulation output array includes activating at least one of the light source, speaker, electrode, antenna, or magnetic coil of the stimulation output array.
7. The system of claim 1 , further comprising a three-fold cascaded amplifying circuit the three-fold cascaded amplifying circuit further comprising:
a buffering stage configured to remove motion artifacts from the first signal; a feed forward differentia] pre-amplification stage configured to receive the first signal from the buffering stage, and pre-amplify the first signal utilizing a feed forward topology to suppress electrical line noise, and
an adaptive amplification stage configured to receive the first signal from the feed forward differential pre-amplification stage, the adaptive amplification stage further configured to dynamically adjust a first amplifier gain based on the amplitude of at least one of the one or more combined biosignals.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the first set of instructions is further executable by the first processor to:
set the first amplifier gain to a first gain level in response to determining that an
amplitude of an electromyography signal of the one or more individual biosignals is below a threshold during a first time window;
set the first amplifier gain to a second gain level lower than the first gain level in
response to determining that an amplitude of the electromyography signal of the one or more individual biosignals is above a threshold during the first time window', and for the duration of a second time window' longer than the first windows
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the first set of instructions is further executable by the first processor to:
sample the first signal obtained from the one or more sensors at a first sampling rate to produce a first signal at the first sampling rate; and
average two or more samples of the first signal to produce a first signal at a second sampling rate titan the first sampling rate.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein separating the first signal into one or more individual biosignals further comprises:
applying a respective bandpass filter for each of the one or more individual biosignals to the first signal, each respective bandpass filter further comprising a respective bandpass frequency associated with each of the one or more individual biosignals.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein separating the first signal into one or more individual bi «signals further comprises: recovering via a transfer learning model built from a ground-truth signal, components of each of the one or more individual biosignals from frequency ranges that overlap with other individual biosignais of the one or more individual biosignals.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein determining the wakefulness classification of the patient further compri es determining whether the patient i in a microsleep state or an awake state.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein determining the wakefulness classification of the patient further comprises quantifying, via the machine learning model, a wakefulness level based on the captured biosignals from behind-the-ears, wherein the wakefulness level indicates an estimated probability that the patient is in a microsleep state.
14. An apparatus comprising:
a processor; and
a computer readable medium in com muni cat! on with the processor, the computer readable medium having encoded thereon a set of instructions executable by the processor to:
obtain, via one or more behind-the-ear sensors, a first signal collected from behind the ear of a patient, the first signal comprising one or more combined biosignals;
separate the first signal into one or more individual component biosignals; identify, via a machine learning model, one or more features associated with a wakefulness state for each of the one or more individual component biosignais;
extract the one or more features from each of the one or more individual
biosignais, and
determine, based on the one or more features extracted from the one or more individual biosignais, a wakefulness cl ssification of the patient.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the one or more individual biosignais includes at least one of an electroencephalogram (EEG) signal, el ectroocul ography (EOG) signal, electromyography (EMG) signal, and electroderm a! activity (EDA) signal.
16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the set of instructions is further executable by the processor to:
control operation of a stimulation array based on the wakefulness classification,
wherein the stimulation array includes at least one of the light source, speaker, electrode, antenna, or magnetic coil of the stimulation output array,
wherein if the wakefulness classification is indicative of a microsleep state,
controlling the operation of the stimulation array includes activating one or more of the at least one of the light source, speaker, electrode, antenna, or magnetic coil of the st ulat on output array.
17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein separating the first signal into one or more individual biosignals further comprises:
applying a respective bandpass filter for each of the one or more individual biosignals to the first signal, each respective bandpass filter further comprising a respective bandpass frequency associated with each of the one or more individual biosignals.
18. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein separating the first signal into one or more individual biosignals further comprises:
recovering, via a transfer learning model built from a ground-truth signal, components of each of the one or more individual biosignals from frequency ranges that overlap with other individual biosignals of the one or more individual biosignals.
19. A method compri sing :
obtaining, via one or more behindrthe-ear sensors, a first signal from behind the ears of a patient, the first signal comprising one or more combined biosignals; separating, via a machine learning model , the first signal into one or ore individual component biosignais;
identifying, via the machine learning model, one or more features associated with a wakefulness state for each of the one or more individual component biosignals; extracting the one or more features from each of the one or more individual
biosignais; and determining, via the machine learning model, a wakefulness classification of the patient based on the one or more features extracted from the one or more i ndi vid ual bi osignal s .
20. The method of claim 19 further comprising:
controlling operation of a stimulation array based on the wakefulness classification, wherein the stimulation array includes at least one of the light source, speaker, electrode, antenna, or magnetic coil of the stimulation output array,
wherein if the wakefulness classification is indicative of a microsleep state,
controlling the operation of the stimulation array includes activating one or more of the at least one of the light source, speaker, electrode, antenna, or magnetic coil of the stimulation output array.
</claims>
</document>
