<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-14
</priority_date>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHENNUBHOTLA, SRINIVAS C.
PULLARA, FILIPPO
FURMAN, Samantha A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73288830
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CHAFTACTERIZING CELLULAR PHENOTYPIC DIVERSITY FROM MULTI-PARAMETER CELLULAR. AND SUB-CELLULAR IMAGING DATA
</title>

<abstract>
A method of characterizing cellular phenotypes includes receiving multi-parameter cellular and sub-cellular imaging data for a number of tissue samples from a number of patients or a number of multicellular in vitro models, performing cellular segmentation on the multi-parameter cellular and sub-cellular imaging data to create segmented multi-parameter cellular and sub-cellular imaging data, and performing recursive decomposition on the segmented multi-parameter cellular and subcellular imaging data to identify a plurality of computational phenotypes. The recursive decomposition includes a plurality of levels of decomposition with each level of decomposition including soft/probabilistic clustering and spatial regularization, and each cell in the segmented multi-parameter cellular and subcellular imaging data is probabilistically assigned to one or more of the plurality of computational phenotypes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of characterizing cellular phenotypes from multi-parameter cellular and sub-cellular imaging data for a number of tissue samples from a number of patients or a number of multicellular in vitro models, comprising:
receiving segmented multi-parameter cellular and sub-cellular imaging data, wherein the segmented multi-parameter cellular and sub-cellular imaging data is generated by performing cellular segmentation on the multi-parameter cellular and sub-cellular imaging data; and
performing recursive decomposition on the segmented multi-parameter cellular and subcellular imaging data to identify a plurality of computational phenotypes, wherein the recursive decomposition includes a plurality of levels of decomposition with each level of decomposition including soft/probabilistic clustering and spatial regularization, and wherein each cell in the segmented multiparameter cellular and subcellular imaging data is probabilistically assigned to one or more of the plurality of computational phenotypes.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising generating a visual representation in which each cell in the segmented multi-parameter cellular and subcellular imaging data is probabilistically associated with only one of the plurality of computational phenotypes based on a respective highest ownership probability of each cell.
3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising generating a cellular phenotypic tree in which each cell in the segmented multi-parameter cellular and subcellular imaging data is probabilistically assigned to one or more of the plurality of computational phenotypes, wherein the cellular phenotypic tree includes a plurality of terminal nodes, with each of the terminal nodes signifying a respective one of the plurality of computational phenotypes.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein a size of each terminal node corresponds to a fraction of the cells assigned to the computational phenotype of the terminal node.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the multi-parameter cellular and sub-cellular imaging data comprises multi to hyperplexed immunofluorescence biomarker data or multi to hyperplexed mass spectrometry based biomarker data.
6. The method according to claim 1, further comprising using the plurality of computational phenotypes to form parameters of a multiple factor analysis (MFA) model.
7. The method according to claim 6, further comprising applying
Kullback-Leiber (KL) divergence metrics using the parameters of the MFA model parameters to quantify a difference between any two of the computational phenotypes.
8. The method according to claim 7, further comprising generating a heat map based on results of the applying the KL di vergence metrics.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the soft/probabilistic clustering includes a plurality of clusters, with each cluster corresponding to a respective one of the plurality of computational phenotypes, wherein each cluster is defined to be a hierarchical mixture of parametric low-dimensional subspaces, and wherein each cell in the segmented multi-parameter cellular and subcellular imaging data is probabilistically owned by every cluster.
10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the recursive decomposition employs a stopping criterion for recursion comprising a threshold applied to an angle between the sub spaces of the hierarchical mixture to ensure that the computational phenotypes are distinct.
11. The method according to claim 9, wherein the spatial regularization employs a function that includes a first term that promotes sparsity in cluster assignments and which implies that each cell attempts to belong fully to one of the clusters, and a second term that promotes spatial coherence.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the function is optimized using Alternating Directions Method of Multipliers (ADMM).
13. The method according to claim 3, wherein the recursive decomposition employs a stopping criterion that stops recursion when: (i) a resulting cluster takes ownership of < 1% of cells, (ii) it is determined that the cellular phenotypic tree has surpassed a given depth threshold, or (iii) an angle between mean vectors and factor loading space are both below a given threshold.
14. A non-transit ory computer readable medium storing one or more programs, including instructions, which when executed by a computer, causes the computer to perform the method of claim 1.
15. A computerized system for characterizing cellular phenotypes, comprising:
a processing apparatus, wherein the processing apparatus includes a cellular phenotype characterizing component configured for:
receiving segmented multi-parameter cellular and sub-cellular imaging data, wherein the segmented multi-parameter cellular and sub-cellular imaging data is generated by performing cellular segmentation on the multi-parameter cellular and sub-cellular imaging data; and
performing recursive decomposition on the segmented multi-parameter cellular and subcellular imaging data to identify a plurality of computational phenotypes, wherein the recursive decomposition includes a plurality of levels of decomposition with each level of decomposition including soft/probabilistic clustering and spatial regularization, and wherein each cell in the segmented multi-parameter cellular and subcellular imaging data is probabilistically assigned to one or more of the plurality of computational phenotypes.
16. The system according to claim 15, wherein the cellular phenotype characterizing component is further configured for generating a visual representation in which each cell in the segmented multi-parameter cellular and subcellular imaging data is probabilistically associated with only one of the plurality of computational phenotypes based on a respective highest ownership probability of each cell.
17. The system according to claim 15, wherein the cellular phenotype characterizing component is further configured for generating a cellular phenotypic tree in which each cell in the segmented multi -parameter cellular and subcellular imaging data is probabilistically assigned to one or more of the plurality of computational phenotypes, wherein the cellular phenotypic tree includes a plurality of terminal nodes, with each of the terminal nodes signifying a respective one of the plurality of computational phenotypes.
18. The system according to claim 17, wherein a size of each terminal node corresponds to a fraction of the cells assigned to the computational phenotype of the terminal node.
19. The system according to claim 15, wherein the multi-parameter cellular and sub-cellular imaging data comprises multi to hyperplexed
immunofluorescence biomarker data or multi to hyperplexed mass spectrometry based biomarker data.
20. The system according to claim 15, wherein the cellular phenotype characterizing component is further configured for using the plurality of
computational phenotypes to form parameters of a multiple factor analysis (MFA) model.
21. The system according to claim 20, wherein the cellular phenotype characterizing component is further configured for applying Kullback-Leiber (KL) divergence metrics using the parameters of the MFA model parameters to quantify a difference between any two of the computational phenotypes.
22. The system according to claim 21, wherein the cellular phenotype characterizing component is further configured for generating a heat map based on results of the applying the KL divergence metrics.
23. The system according to claim 15, wherein the soft/probabilistic clustering includes a plurality of clusters, with each cluster corresponding to a respective one of the plurality of computational phenotypes, wherein each cluster is defined to be a hierarchical mixture of parametric low-dimensional subspaces, and wherein each cell in the segmented multi-parameter cellular and subcellular imaging data is probabilistically owned by every cluster.
24. The system according to claim 15, wherein the recursive
decomposition employs a stopping criterion for recursion comprising a threshold applied to an angle between the subspaces of the hierarchical mixture to ensure that the computational phenotypes are distinct.
25. The system according to claim 23, wherein the spatial regularization employs a function that includes a first term that promotes sparsity in cluster assignments and which implies that each cell attempts to belong fully to one of the clusters, and a second term that promotes spatial coherence.
26. The system according to claim 25, wherein the function is optimized using Alternating Directions Method of Multipliers (ADMM).
27. The system according to claim 17, wherein the recursive
decomposition employs a stopping criterion that stops recursion when: (i) a resulting cluster takes ownership of < 1% of cells, (ii) it is determined that the cellular phenotypic tree has surpassed a given depth threshold, or (iii) an angle between mean vectors and factor loading space are both below a given threshold.
</claims>
</document>
