<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12N15/10,C12N15/11,C12P19/34,C12Q1/68,G06F9/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAMBRIDGE CANCER GENOMICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARRIES, LUKE
PATEL, NIRMESH
DUBOURG-FELONNEAU, GEOFFROY
CLIFFORD, HARRY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70165160
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR NUCLEIC ACID VARIANT DETECTION AND ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are methods, systems, and devices for detection of nucleotide variants. In some aspects, the methods, systems, and devices of the present disclosure can be used to detect germline variant or somatic variant in a biological sample, e.g., a sample from a tumor tissue. In other aspects, the methods, systems, and devices of the present disclosure can be used to detect somatic variant in cell-free nucleic acids from a biological sample, such as blood, plasma, serum, saliva, or urine. In some aspects, the methods, systems, and devices of the present disclosure make use of neural networks, such as convolutional neural networks for variant detection.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for determining a somatic nucleotide variant in cell-free nucleic acids from a subject, comprising:
(a) obtaining a plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free nucleic acids from the
subject and a plurality of sequencing reads of nucleic acids from a normal tissue of the subject;
(b) generating a data input from the plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free nucleic acids and the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the normal tissue; and
(c) determining the somatic nucleotide variant in the cell-free nucleic acids by applying a trained neural network to the data input.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the data input comprises one or more tensors, and wherein each of the plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free nucleic acids and each of the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the normal tissue are represented in a different row of the one or more tensors.
3. A method for determining a somatic nucleotide variant in cell-free nucleic acids from a subject, comprising:
(a) obtaining a plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free nucleic acids from the
subject;
(b) generating a data input comprising one or more tensors, wherein each of the plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free nucleic acids is represented in a different row of the one or more tensors; and
(c) determining the somatic nucleotide variant in the cell-free nucleic acids by applying a trained neural network to the data input.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising obtaining a plurality of sequencing reads from a normal tissue of the subject, wherein each of the plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free nucleic acids is represented in a different row of the one or more tensors.
5. The method of claim 2 or 4, wherein the one or more tensors comprise digital
representations of images. 6 The method of claim 5, wherein the images comprise RGB images.
7. The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the cell-free nucleic acids are obtained or derived from a biological sample comprising one or more of: blood, serum, plasma, saliva, urine, and any combination thereof.
8. A method for determining a somatic nucleotide variant in nucleic acids from a tumor tissue of a subject, comprising:
(a) obtaining a plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue of the subject and a plurality of sequencing reads of nucleic acids from a normal tissue of the subject;
(b) generating a data input comprising one or more tensors, wherein each of the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue and each of the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the normal tissue are represented in a different row of the one or more tensors, respectively; and
(c) determining the somatic nucleotide variant in the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue by applying a trained neural network to the data input.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the one or more tensors comprise a first tensor and a second tensor.
10. A method for determining a somatic nucleotide variant in nucleic acids from a tumor tissue of a subject, comprising:
(a) obtaining a plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue of the subject and a plurality of sequencing reads of nucleic acids from a normal tissue of the subject;
(b) generating a data input comprising a first tensor and a second tensor, wherein the first tensor comprises a representation of the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue, and wherein the second tensor comprises a
representation of the plurality of sequencing reads of nucleic acids from a normal tissue; and
(c) determining the somatic nucleotide variant in the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue by applying a trained neural network to the first and second tensors.
11. The method of claim 9 or 10, wherein each of the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue is represented in a different row of the first tensor, and wherein each of the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the normal tissue is represented in a different row of the second tensor.
12. A method for determining a somatic nucleotide variant in nucleic acids from a tumor tissue of a subject, comprising:
(a) obtaining a plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue of the subject and a plurality of sequencing reads of nucleic acids from a normal tissue of the subject;
(b) generating a data input from the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue and the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the normal tissue; and
(c) determining the somatic nucleotide variant in the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue by applying a Siamese neural network to the data input, wherein the Siamese neural network comprises two trained sister neural networks, wherein each of the two identical trained sister neural networks generates an output, and wherein the Siamese neural network is configured to apply a function to outputs of the two identical trained sister neural networks to determine a classification indicative of whether the outputs are identical or different.
13. A method for determining a somatic nucleotide variant in nucleic acids from a tumor tissue of a subject, comprising:
(a) obtaining a plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue of the subject;
(b) generating a data input from the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue and at least a portion of a reference genome of the subject; and
(c) determining the somatic nucleotide variant in the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue by applying a trained neural network to the data input, wherein the trained neural network comprises a convolutional neural network configured to apply a kernel in a layer of the convolutional neural network to process at a fixed row of the kernel a representation of the at least a portion of the reference genome that is received from a preceding layer of the convolutional neural network.
14. A method for determining a somatic nucleotide variant in nucleic acids from a tumor tissue of a subject, comprising:
(a) obtaining a plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue of the subject;
(b) generating a data input from the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue, wherein the data input is devoid of features extracted from the plurality of sequencing reads; and
(c) determining the somatic nucleotide variant in the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue by applying a neural network directly to the data input.
15. The method of claim 13 or 14, further comprises obtaining a plurality of sequencing reads of nucleic acids from a normal tissue of the subject.
16. The method of any one of claims 10-12, 14, or 15, wherein the data input comprises a representation of at least a portion of a reference genome of the subject.
17. The method of claim 12 or 15, wherein the data input comprises one or more tensors, and wherein each of the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue and each of the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the normal tissue are represented in a different row of the one or more tensors, respectively.
18. The method of any one of claims 13, 16, or 17, wherein the one or more tensors comprise digital representations of images.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the images comprise RGB images.
20. The method of any one of claims 13 or 16-19, wherein the at least a portion of the reference genome is represented in at least one row of each of the one or more tensors.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the one or more tensors comprise a first tensor and a second tensor, wherein each of the plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free nucleic acids is represented in a different row of the first tensor, and wherein each of the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the normal tissue is represented in a different row of the second tensor.
22. The method of any one of claims 1-11 or 13-21, wherein the trained neural network comprises a Siamese neural network comprising two trained sister neural networks, wherein each of the two trained sister neural networks generates an output, and wherein the Siamese neural network is configured to apply a function to outputs from the two trained sister neural networks to determine a classification indicative of whether the outputs are identical or different.
23. The method of claim 12 or 22, wherein the Siamese neural network is configured to determine the classification by comparing a distance between the outputs against a pre determined threshold.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the threshold is pre-set in the Siamese neural network.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the threshold is optimized during training of the Siamese neural network.
26. The method of claim 23, wherein the Siamese network comprises a fully connected layer applied to the distance.
27. The method of any one of claims 1 to 26, wherein the trained neural network or the two trained sister neural networks comprise a deep neural network (DNN), a convolutional neural network (CNN), a feed forward network, a cascade neural network, a radial basis network, a deep feed forward network, a recurrent neural network (RNN), a long short-term memory (LSTM) network, a gated recurrent unit, an auto encoder, a variational auto encoder, a denoising auto encoder, a sparse auto encoder, a Markov chain, a Hopfiled network, a Boltzmann Machine, a restricted Boltzmann Machine, a deep belief network, a deconvolutional network, a deep convolutional inverse graphics network, a generative adversarial network, a liquid state machine, extreme learning machine, echo state network, deep residual network, a Kohonen network, a support vector machine, neural Turing machine, and any combination thereof.
28. The method of any one of claims 1 to 27, wherein the trained neural network or the two trained sister neural networks comprise a convolutional neural network (CNN), a recurrent neural network (RNN), a long short-term memory (LSTM) network, or any combination thereof.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the trained neural network or the two trained sister neural networks comprise a long short-term memory (LSTM) recurrent neural network (RNN).
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the LSTM RNN comprises a bidirectional LSTM (BiLSTM) RNN.
31. The method of any one of claims 1 to29, wherein at least a portion of a reference genome of the subject is represented in the data input, wherein the trained neural network or the two trained sister neural networks comprise a convolutional neural network configured to apply a kernel in a layer of the convolutional neural network to process at a fixed row of the kernel a representation of the at least a portion of the reference genome that is received from a preceding layer of the convolutional neural network.
32. The method of any one of claims 1 to 31, further comprising sequencing the cell-free nucleic acids, the nucleic acids from the normal tissue, or the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue.
33. The method of any one of claims 1 to 32, wherein the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue, the plurality of sequencing reads of nucleic acids from the normal tissue, or the plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free nucleic acids are within a genomic region covering a first genomic site.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein the obtaining comprises determining the first genomic site as a potential site for nucleotide variant by applying a filter to the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue, the plurality of sequencing reads of nucleic acids from the normal tissue, or the plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free nucleic acids.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein applying the filter comprises comparing the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue, the plurality of sequencing reads of nucleic acids from the normal tissue, or the plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free nucleic acids against a reference genome of the subject.
36. The method of claim 34, wherein applying the filter further comprises calculating variant allele frequency for the first genomic site, and comparing the variant allele frequency against a pre-determined threshold.
37. The method of any one of claims 1 to 36, wherein the trained neural network or the Siamese network is trained with a labeled dataset, wherein the labeled dataset comprises a plurality of sequencing reads labeled as having a somatic variant at a genomic site, and a plurality of sequencing reads labeled as having no somatic variant at the genomic site.
38. The method of any one of claims 1 to 37, wherein the two trained sister neural networks are either (i) initialized with a germline variant training with a labeled dataset comprising a plurality of sequencing reads labeled as having a germline variant at a genomic site, and a plurality of sequencing reads labeled as having no somatic variant at the genomic site, or (ii) pre set with weights initialized from the germline variant training.
39. The method of any one of claims 1 to 38, wherein the trained neural network, the Siamese network, or the two trained sister neural networks are trained with a labeled dataset comprising at least about 5,000, at least about 10,000, at least about 20,000, at least about 50,000, at least about 100,000, or at least about 1,000,000 labeled sequencing reads.
40. The method of any one of claims 1 to 39, further comprising generating a likelihood value corresponding to the determined somatic nucleotide variant in the nucleic acids from the tumor tissue.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein generating the likelihood value comprises learning a probability density function over a set of weights of the trained neural network or the two trained sister neural networks.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein learning the probability density function comprises applying Bayesian inference to the set of weights.
43. The method of claim 42, wherein the trained neural network or the two trained sister neural networks comprise a BiLSTM RNN comprising two layers of BiLSTM cells.
44. The method of claim 43, wherein the two layers of BiLSTM cells comprise variational dense layers or standard layers.
45. The method of any one of claims 40 to 44, wherein the likelihood value is a probability value of the determined somatic nucleotide variant being present in the tumor tissue of the subject.
46. The method of any one of claims 1 to 45, further comprising diagnosing, prognosticating, or monitoring a cancer in the subject.
47. The method of claim 46, further comprising providing treatment recommendations for the cancer.
48. The method of claim 46 or 47, wherein the cancer is selected from the group consisting of: adrenal cancer, anal cancer, basal cell carcinoma, bile duct cancer, bladder cancer, cancer of the blood, bone cancer, a brain tumor, breast cancer, bronchus cancer, cancer of the
cardiovascular system, cervical cancer, colon cancer, colorectal cancer, cancer of the digestive system, cancer of the endocrine system, endometrial cancer, esophageal cancer, eye cancer, gallbladder cancer, a gastrointestinal tumor, hepatocellular carcinoma, kidney cancer, hematopoietic malignancy, laryngeal cancer, leukemia, liver cancer, lung cancer, lymphoma, melanoma, mesothelioma, cancer of the muscular system, Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS), myeloma, nasal cavity cancer, nasopharyngeal cancer, cancer of the nervous system, cancer of the lymphatic system, oral cancer, oropharyngeal cancer, osteosarcoma, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, penile cancer, pituitary tumors, prostate cancer, rectal cancer, renal pelvis cancer, cancer of the reproductive system, cancer of the respiratory system, sarcoma, salivary gland cancer, skeletal system cancer, skin cancer, small intestine cancer, stomach cancer, testicular cancer, throat cancer, thymus cancer, thyroid cancer, a tumor, cancer of the urinary system, uterine cancer, vaginal cancer, vulvar cancer, and any combination thereof.
49. The method of any one of claims 1 to 48, wherein (b) comprises processing a sequence alignment map (SAM) or binary alignment map (BAM) file of the plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free nucleic acids or a SAM or BAM file of the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the normal tissue by: splitting the SAM or BAM file into a plurality of distinct microSAM or microBAM files, wherein each distinct microSAM or microBAM file comprises a different set from among a plurality of sets of the sequencing reads, and performing parallel processing of the plurality of distinct microSAM or microBAM files.
50. The method of claim 49, further comprising creating the plurality of sets of the plurality of sequencing reads, such that each set of the plurality of sets comprises all genomic regions represented in the plurality of sequencing reads that are closer to each other than a pre determined maximum interval.
51. The method of any one of claims 1 to 50, wherein (b) comprises creating a pileup image from the plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free nucleic acids; creating a normal pileup image from the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the normal tissue;
applying a coloration algorithm to the pileup image and the normal pileup image; and
concatenating the pileup image and the normal pileup image, thereby generating a pileup matrix.
52. A device for determining a somatic nucleotide variant in nucleic acids from a tumor tissue of a subject, comprising means for performing the method of any one of claims 1 to 51.
53. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing computer program instructions for determining a somatic nucleotide variant in nucleic acids from a tumor tissue of a subject, the computer program comprising instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations according to the method of any one of claims 1 to 51.
54. A computer-implemented method for performing parallel processing of a plurality of sequencing reads, comprising:
(a) obtaining a sequence alignment map (SAM) or binary alignment map (BAM) file of the plurality of sequencing reads;
(b) creating a plurality of sets of the plurality of sequencing reads, wherein each set of the plurality of sets comprises all genomic regions represented in the plurality of sequencing reads that are closer to each other than a pre-determined maximum interval;
(c) splitting the SAM or BAM file into a plurality of distinct microSAM or microBAM files, wherein each distinct microSAM or microBAM file comprises a different set from among the plurality of sets of the sequencing reads; and
(d) performing parallel processing of the plurality of distinct microSAM or microBAM files, thereby identifying genetic variants in the plurality of sequencing reads.
55. The method of claim 54, further comprising determining a coverage of the SAM or BAM file.
56. The method of claim 54, wherein (d) comprises one or more of: overwriting read groups, indexing the SAM or BAM file or the plurality of distinct microSAM or microBAM files, and generating pileups from the plurality of distinct microSAM or microBAM files.
57. The method of claim 54, wherein (d) comprises identifying somatic genetic variants in the plurality of sequencing reads, germline genetic variants in the plurality of sequencing reads, false-positive genetic variants arising from sequencing error, or a combination thereof.
58. A system for performing parallel processing of a plurality of sequencing reads, comprising:
a database that is configured to store a sequence alignment map (SAM) or binary alignment map (BAM) file of the plurality of sequencing reads; and
one or more computer processors operatively coupled to the database, wherein the one or more computer processors are individually or collectively programmed to:
(i) create a plurality of sets of the plurality of sequencing reads, wherein each set of the plurality of sets comprises all genomic regions represented in the plurality of sequencing reads that are closer to each other than a pre-determined maximum interval;
(ii) split the SAM or BAM file into a plurality of distinct microSAM or microBAM files, wherein each distinct microSAM or microBAM file comprises a different set from among the plurality of sets of the sequencing reads; and
(iii) perform parallel processing of the plurality of distinct microSAM or microBAM files, thereby identifying genetic variants in the plurality of sequencing reads.
59. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising machine-executable code that, upon execution by one or more computer processors, implements a method for performing parallel processing of a plurality of sequencing reads, the method comprising:
(a) obtaining a sequence alignment map (SAM) or binary alignment map (BAM) file of the plurality of sequencing reads;
(b) creating a plurality of sets of the plurality of sequencing reads, wherein each set of the plurality of sets comprises all genomic regions represented in the plurality of sequencing reads that are closer to each other than a pre-determined maximum interval;
(c) splitting the SAM or BAM file into a plurality of distinct microSAM or microBAM files, wherein each distinct microSAM or microBAM file comprises a different set from among the plurality of sets of the sequencing reads; and
(d) performing parallel processing of the plurality of distinct microSAM or microBAM files, thereby identifying genetic variants in the plurality of sequencing reads.
60. A computer-implemented method for generating a pileup matrix, comprising:
(a) obtaining a plurality of sequencing reads of nucleic acids of a test sample from a subject and a plurality of sequencing reads of nucleic acids from a normal tissue of the subject;
(b) creating a pileup image from the plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free nucleic acids;
(c) creating a normal pileup image from the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the normal tissue;
(d) applying a coloration algorithm to the pileup image and the normal pileup image; and
(e) concatenating the pileup image and the normal pileup image, thereby generating the pileup matrix.
61. The method of claim 60, wherein the test sample comprises a tumor tissue sample, a cellfree sample, a bodily fluid sample, or a tissue suspected of containing a tumor or genetic variants.
62. The method of claim 61, wherein the test sample comprises a cell-free sample.
63. The method of claim 60, wherein creating the pileup image or the normal pileup image comprises applying a Concise Idiosyncratic Gapped Alignment Report (CIGAR) correction.
64. The method of claim 60, further comprising applying a quality filter to the pileup image and the normal pileup image.
65. The method of claim 60, further comprising adding a reference to the pileup image and the normal pileup image.
66. The method of claim 60, further comprising processing the pileup matrix, thereby identifying genetic variants in the plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free nucleic acids or the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the normal tissue.
67. A system for generating a pileup matrix, comprising:
a database that is configured to store a plurality of sequencing reads of cell-free nucleic acids from a subject and a plurality of sequencing reads of nucleic acids from a normal tissue of the subject; and
one or more computer processors operatively coupled to the database, wherein the one or more computer processors are individually or collectively programmed to:
(i) create a pileup image from the plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free
nucleic acids;
(ii) create a normal pileup image from the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the normal tissue;
(iii) apply a coloration algorithm to the pileup image and the normal pileup image; and
(iv) concatenate the pileup image and the normal pileup image, thereby generating the pileup matrix.
68. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising machine-executable code that, upon execution by one or more computer processors, implements a method for generating a pileup matrix, the method comprising:
(a) obtaining a plurality of sequencing reads of cell-free nucleic acids from a subject and a plurality of sequencing reads of nucleic acids from a normal tissue of the subject;
(b) creating a pileup image from the plurality of sequencing reads of the cell-free nucleic acids;
(c) creating a normal pileup image from the plurality of sequencing reads of the nucleic acids from the normal tissue;
(d) applying a coloration algorithm to the pileup image and the normal pileup image; and
(e) concatenating the pileup image and the normal pileup image, thereby generating the pileup matrix.
</claims>
</document>
