<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B41/00,E21B43/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HALLIBURTON ENERGY SERVICES GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRECI, STEPHEN, MICHAEL
FRIPP, MICHAEL, LINLEY
ORNELAZ, RICHARD DECENA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70852165
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FLOW RATE MANAGEMENT FOR IMPROVED RECOVERY
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments for controlling flow rates within a well system are disclosed herein. In one embodiment, a first flow control configuration is determined including determining flow profiles for a plurality of zones each including at least one flow control device. Contaminant intake classifications associated with one or more of the zones are generated based on the first flow control configuration and a first contaminant level detected for a combined flow comprising inflow from the zones. A second flow control configuration for the zones is generated based on the contaminant intake classifications.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for controlling flow rates within a well system, said method comprising: determining a first flow control configuration including determining flow profiles for a plurality of zones each including at least one flow control device; generating contaminant intake classifications associated with one or more of the zones based on the first flow control configuration and a first contaminant level detected for a combined flow comprising inflow from the zones; and
generating a second flow control configuration for the zones based on the contaminant intake classifications.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
implementing the second flow control configuration; and
following said implementing the second flow control configuration,
detecting a second contaminant level for the combined flow; and determining contaminant intake classifications for the zones based on the first flow control configuration, the second flow control configuration, and a difference in contaminant level from the first contaminant level to the second contaminant level.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising implementing the second flow control configuration including assigning flow rate modifications to one or more flow control devices within at least one of the zones and modifying flow resistivities of one or more flow control devices based on the assigned flow rate modifications.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the flow control devices include at least one inflow control device and at least one outflow control device, and wherein said modifying flow resistivities includes increasing a flow resistivity of the at least one outflow control device based on a contaminant intake classification of a zone including the at least one inflow control device.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein said determining flow profiles for the plurality of zones includes generating inter-zone flow records that each associates a zone identifier (ID) with a flow setting for at least one flow control device within the zone, and at least one other zone into which or from which fluid flows to or from the zone.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein said determining a first flow control configuration comprises generating a flow control configuration record comprising inter-zone flow records for each of two or more of the zones.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising generating a contaminant intake instance record that associates the detected contaminant level with the flow control configuration record.
8. The method of claim 5, further comprising:
generating training records that each associate the zones with a contaminant intake value and respective contaminant intake classifications; and
processing the training records by a supervised learning unit to generate a contaminant intake classifier.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising generating a contaminant intake instance record that associates the first detected contaminant level with inter-zone flow records for each of two or more of the zones, and wherein said determining contaminant intake classifications includes processing the contaminant intake instance record using the contaminant intake classifier to determine contaminant intake classifications for one or more of the zones.
10. An apparatus comprising:
a processor; and
a machine-readable medium having program code executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to,
determine a first flow control configuration including determining flow profiles for a plurality of zones each including at least one flow control device;
generate contaminant intake classifications associated with one or more of the zones based on the first flow control configuration and a first contaminant level detected for a combined flow comprising inflow from the zones; and
generate a second flow control configuration for the zones based on the contaminant intake classifications.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the program code further comprises program code executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: implement the second flow control configuration; and
following said implementing the second flow control configuration,
detect a second contaminant level for the combined flow; and
determine contaminant intake classifications for the zones based on the first flow control configuration, the second flow control configuration, and a difference in contaminant level from the first contaminant level to the second contaminant level.
12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the program code further comprises program code executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to implement the second flow control configuration including assigning flow rate modifications to one or more flow control devices within at least one of the zones and modifying flow resistivities of one or more flow control devices based on the assigned flow rate modifications.
13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the program code executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to determine flow profiles for the plurality of zones includes program code executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to generate inter-zone flow records that each associates a zone identifier (ID) with a flow setting for at least one flow control device within the zone, and at least one other zone into which or from which fluid flows to or from the zone.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the program code executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to determine a first flow control configuration comprises program code executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to generate a flow control configuration record comprising inter-zone flow records for each of two or more of the zones.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the program code further comprises program code executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to generate a contaminant intake instance record that associates the detected contaminant level with the flow control configuration record.
16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the program code further comprises program code executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to:
generate training records that each associate the zones with a contaminant intake value and respective contaminant intake classifications; and process the training records by a supervised learning unit to generate a contaminant intake classifier.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the program code further comprises program code executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to generate a contaminant intake instance record that associates the first detected contaminant level with inter-zone flow records for each of two or more of the zones, and wherein said determining contaminant intake classifications includes processing the contaminant intake instance record using the contaminant intake classifier to determine contaminant intake classifications for one or more of the zones.
18. One or more non-transitory machine-readable media comprising program code for controlling flow rates within a well system, the program code to:
determine a first flow control configuration including determining flow profiles for a plurality of zones each including at least one flow control device;
generate contaminant intake classifications associated with one or more of the zones based on the first flow control configuration and a first contaminant level detected for a combined flow comprising inflow from the zones; and
generate a second flow control configuration for the zones based on the contaminant intake classifications.
19. The machine-readable media of claim 18, wherein the program code further comprises program code to:
implement the second flow control configuration; and
following said implementing the second flow control configuration,
detect a second contaminant level for the combined flow; and
determine contaminant intake classifications for the zones based on the first flow control configuration, the second flow control configuration, and a difference in contaminant level from the first contaminant level to the second contaminant level.
20. The machine-readable media of claim 19, wherein the program code further comprises program code to implement the second flow control configuration including assigning flow rate modifications to one or more flow control devices within at least one of the zones and modifying flow resistivities of one or more flow control devices based on the assigned flow rate modifications.
</claims>
</document>
