<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16B15/30,G16B40/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEC ONCOIMMUNITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
EIDSAA MARUIS
ROSE CHRIS
STRATFORD RICHARD
CLANCY TREVOR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66625024
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR BINDING AFFINITY PREDICTION AND METHOD OF GENERATING A CANDIDATE PROTEIN-BINDING PEPTIDE
</title>

<abstract>
According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a computer-implemented method of predicting a binding affinity value of a query binder molecule to a query target molecule, the query binder molecule having a first amino acid sequence and the query target molecule having a second amino acid sequence, the method comprising: encoding the first and second amino acid sequences together as a plurality of data elements to generate an encoded pair of amino acids, each data element of the encoded pair representing which amino acids from the first and second amino acid sequences are paired at a respective contact point between the first amino acid sequence and the second amino acid sequence to form a contact point pair, wherein a contact point pair is a pairing of amino acids from a binder molecule and a target molecule which are proximal to one another to influence binding; and, applying a machine learning or statistical model to the encoded pair of amino acids to predict a binding affinity value, wherein the machine learning model or statistical model is trained by: accessing, with at least one processor, a reference data store of reference binder-target pairs comprising respective paired reference binder sequences and reference target sequences, each reference binder-target pair having an associated measured binding value; and, encoding each reference binder-target pair as a plurality of data elements, each data element of the encoded reference binder-target pair representing which amino acids from the respective paired reference binder sequences and reference target sequences are paired at a respective contact point to form a contact point pair, such that the predicted binding affinity value is representative of a contribution to binding of each contact point pair of the query binder molecule and the query target molecule.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of predicting a binding affinity value of a query binder molecule to a query target molecule, the query binder molecule having a first amino acid sequence and the query target molecule having a second amino acid sequence, the method comprising:
encoding the first and second amino acid sequences together as a plurality of data elements to generate an encoded pair of amino acids, each data element of the encoded pair representing which amino acids from the first and second amino acid sequences are paired at a respective contact point between the first amino acid sequence and the second amino acid sequence to form a contact point pair, wherein a contact point pair is a pairing of amino acids from a binder molecule and a target molecule which are proximal to one another to influence binding; and,
applying a trained machine learning or statistical model to the encoded pair of amino acids to predict a binding affinity value, wherein the machine learning model or statistical model is trained by:
accessing, with at least one processor, a reference data store of reference binder-target pairs comprising respective paired reference binder sequences and reference target sequences, each reference binder-target pair having an associated measured binding value; and, encoding each reference binder-target pair as a plurality of data elements, each data element of the encoded reference binder-target pair representing which amino acids from the respective paired reference binder sequences and reference target sequences are paired at a respective contact point to form a contact point pair,
such that the predicted binding affinity value is representative of a contribution to binding of each contact point pair of the query binder molecule and the query target molecule.
2. A computer-implemented method according to claim 1 , wherein the encoded pair of amino acids is encoded as a vector of data elements.
3. A computer-implemented method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein each data element is a value indicating presence of an amino acid pairing at each contact point.
4. A computer-implemented method according to any preceding claim wherein applying a trained machine learning model or statistical model comprises retrieving a set of model coefficients from a data store, and wherein the machine learning or statistical model is trained by estimating a set of coefficients which fit the encoded reference binder-target pairs and the respective associated measured binding affinity values.
5. A computer-implemented method according to claim 4, wherein applying a trained machine learning model or statistical model comprises a linear combination of the retrieved coefficients and the encoded pair of amino acids.
6. A computer-implemented method according to claim 4 or 5, wherein the coefficients are derived by applying a Bayesian estimation algorithm to the encoded reference binder-target pair and the associated measured binding value.
7. A computer-implemented method according to any preceding claim, wherein each reference binder-target pair is encoded as a sparse matrix, wherein each row represents a reference binder-target pair and wherein each row is associated with a measured binding value.
8. A computer-implemented method according to claim 7, wherein each row of the matrix comprises a series of bits, each bit corresponding to a possible pairing of amino acids for each contact point and indicating the specific amino acids present in the contact point pair and wherein a partition of a row of the matrix encodes an amino acid pair as a feature vector that describes a pairing of an amino acid from the reference binder sequence and an amino acid from the target binder sequence.
9. A computer-implemented method according to any preceding claim, wherein the reference data store further comprises reference binder-target pairs having an associated indication of binding or not binding and wherein the machine learning model or statistical model is trained by:
associating each reference binder-target pair associated with an indication of binding or not binding with an assumed censored IC50 value.
10. A computer-implemented method according to claim 9, further comprising:
calculating, for each reference binder-target pair associated with an assumed censored IC50 value, a contribution to binding by integrating an associated statistical distribution over a set of possible binding affinity values.
1 1. A computer-implemented method according to any preceding claim, further comprising outputting a set of parameters associated with the model such that user may interpret if the model is appropriate using known molecules and a binding affinity value for the known molecules.
12. A computer-implemented method according to any preceding claim, wherein the query binder molecule is a peptide and/or wherein the second amino acid sequence is an MHC protein sequence or an HLA protein sequence.
13. A method of generating at least one candidate protein-binding peptide, the method comprising:
obtaining amino acid sequences of a plurality of peptides and an amino acid sequence of a protein;
determining, for each peptide, a predicted binding affinity to the protein, by a method according to any one of claims 1 to 12; and
selecting one or more candidate peptides of the plurality of peptides based on the respective predicted binding affinity.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising synthesising the one or more candidate peptides or encoding the candidate peptide into a corresponding DNA or RNA sequence and/or incorporating the sequence into a genome of a bacterial or viral delivery system to create a vaccine.
15. A binding affinity prediction system for predicting a binding affinity of a query binder molecule to a query target molecule, the query binder molecule having a first amino acid sequence and the query target molecule having a second amino acid sequence, the system comprising at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device, the at least one memory device having stored thereon instructions for causing the at least one processor to perform a method according to any one of claims 1 to 12.
</claims>
</document>
