<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N1/28,G01N15/14,G01N21/17,G01N21/25,G01N21/31,G01N35/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ESSENLIX CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOU WU
CHOU, STEPHEN
DING WEI
LI HONGBING
QI, JI
TIAN JUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74037178
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMPROVED OPTICAL TRANSMISSION SAMPLE HOLDER AND ANALYSIS AT MULTIPLE WAVELENGTHS
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure provides an apparatus, a device, and methods for improving optical analysis of a thin layer of a sample between two plates, particularly for multiple wavelengths.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device for determining, using a color camera, the intensity for each wavelength in a light with two different wavelengths, the device comprising:
a color camera for measuring light, wherein the light has a first wavelengths of intensity, Ili, mixed with a second wavelength of intensity, Ilz , wherein the camera comprises a first color channel, A, and a second color channel, B; each of the color channels measures the light, generating a signal 1A and IB respectively; and
a non-transitory computer readable medium storing an algorithm that determines, respectively, the intensity of Ili and Ilz, using the signal IA and IB and a predetermined channel cross talking matrix.
2. An apparatus for measuring light absorption of a sample for each of the two different wavelengths, the apparatus comprising:
a sample holder that has a first plate, a second plate, a light guiding spacer (LGS), at least a sampling region, and at least a reference region, wherein the two plates sandwich the sample to be analyzed into a thin layer;
a light beam that has a first wavelengths of intensity, Ili , mixed with a second wavelength of intensity, Ilz ,
a color camera for measuring light, wherein the light has a first wavelengths of intensity, Ili, mixed with a second wavelength of intensity, Ilz , wherein the camera comprises a first color channel, A, and a second color channel, B; each of the color channels measures the light, generating a signal IA and IB respectively;
a non-transitory computer readable medium storing a algorithm that determines (i) the intensity of /Aiand Ilz, respectively, using the signal IA and IB and the channel cross talking matrix, and (ii) the light absorption of a sample for each of the wavelength;
wherein the sampling region is the region that the light can go through, in sequence, the first plate, the sample, and the second plate, wherein the sampling region does not have the LGS;
wherein the reference region is the region that the light transmits through, in sequence, the first plate, the light-guiding spacer, and the second plate, without going through the sample.
3. A method of determining, using a color camera, the intensity for each wavelength in a light with two different wavelengths, the method comprising: providing a color camera for measuring light, wherein the camera comprises a first color channel, A, and a second color channel, B; and wherein the light that has a first wavelengths of intensity, IXi , mixed with a second wavelength of intensity, lXz ,
providing a non-transitory computer readable medium storing an algorithm;
measuring the light using the color camera, wherein each color channel of the color camera generates the signal IA and IB ; and
determining the intensity of /Aiand I z, respectively using the algorithm and the signal 1A and IB, and
wherein the algorithm comprising a predetermined channel cross talking matrix that relates the signal IA and IB to the intensity of IXi and I z .
4. A method of measuring light absorption of a sample for each of the two different wavelengths, the apparatus comprising:
providing an apparatus of claim 2;
placing the sample to analyzed in the sample holder;
shining the light beam through the sample holder and measuring the light using the color channels of the color camera;
determining the light absorption of the sample for each wavelength using the algorithm and calculating the intensity of Ili and I z for the sample region and the reference region respectively.
5. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein light with two different wavelengths comprises a broad band light source passing from a bandwidth filter, wherein the band width filter allows the light of two wavelength pass through, while block the other wavelength.
6. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein light with two different wavelengths comprises a two light source emitting at the same time, wherein each light source has a different wavelength.
7. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the sample is blood and the analyzing is to measure hemoglobin.
8. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the color camera is a camera on mobile phone.
9. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the color camera has at least two color channels and each color channel comprises more than one detection element.
10. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the first channel is the red channel of a color camera and the second channel is the green channel of the same color.
11. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein camera the
predetermined cross-channel matrix has each of the matrix element predetermined by measurements respectively, using the first wavelength and the second wavelength.
12. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the first plate and the second plate are movable relative to each other into a different configuration, including an open configuration and a closed configuration.
13. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the reference region is less than 0.1 urn2, less than 0.2 urn2, less than 0.5 urn2, less than 1 urn2, less than 2 urn2, less than 5 urn2, less than 10 urn2, less than 20 urn2, less than 50 urn2, less than 100 urn2, less than 200 urn2, less than 500 urn2, less than 1000 urn2, less than 2000 urn2, less than 5000 urn2, less than 10000 urn2, less than 20000 urn2, less than 50000 urn2, or in a range between any of the two values.
14. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the device further comprises a plurality of light guiding spacers that have substantially uniform height, and wherein at least one of the light-guiding spacers is inside the sample contact area.
15. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the device further comprises a plurality of light guiding spacers that have substantially uniform height, wherein the distance between two neighboring light guiding spacers are known, and wherein at least one of the light-guiding spacers is inside the sample contact area.
16. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the device further comprises a plurality of light guiding spacers that have substantially uniform height, wherein the distances between two neighboring light guiding spacers are known and are substantially constant (i.e. the light guiding spacers are substantially a periodic array), and wherein at least one of the light-guiding spacers is inside the sample contact area.
17. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the bottom surface of the light guiding spacer is fixed on the inner surface of one of the plates by molding the light guiding spacer on the inner surface of the plate.
18. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the bottom surface of the light guiding spacer is fixed on the inner surface of one of the plates and is made of the same material as the inner surface.
19. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the bottom surface of the light guiding spacer is fixed on the inner surface of one of the plates, and is made of the same material as the inner surface, and the bottom surface of the light guiding spacer has no interface with on the inner surface of the plate.
20. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the sample thickness is 250 urn or less.
21. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the spacers and/or LGS have a height of 100 urn or less.
</claims>
</document>
