<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JPMORGAN CHASE
</assignee>

<inventors>
AHLUWALIA, ISH K.
BELINKIS, VLADIMIR
CHAN, RICKY HEI WONG
HETTIARACHCHI, KANISHKA
JOSEPH, DENNIS
KURUP, REJITH G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70779885
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DATA-DRIVEN INFRASTRUCTURE CONTROLS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for data-driven infrastructure controls are disclosed. According to one embodiment, in an information processing apparatus comprising at least one computer processor, a computer-implemented method for automatically detecting anomalous user behavior within a unified entitlement framework may include: (1) receiving an access request for a technology asset from a user on a computing device, the access request comprising session data comprising one or more of user identification, user location, key strokes, and user computing device identification; (2) applying an entitlement-specific machine learning algorithm to the session data to generate an anomaly score; (3) storing the session data and associated anomaly score; (4) sending a review request to a manager; (5) receiving review results from the manager; and (6) updating the entitlement-specific machine learning algorithm based on the anomaly score and the review results from the manager.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computerimplemented method for automatically detecting anomalous user behavior within a unified entitlement framework, the method comprising the steps of:
in an information processing apparatus comprising at least one computer processor:
receiving an access request for a technology asset from a user on a computing device, the access request comprising session data comprising one or more of user identification, user location, key strokes, and user computing device identification;
applying an entitlementspecific machine learning algorithm to the session data to generate an anomaly score;
storing the session data and associated anomaly score;
sending a review request to a manager;
receiving review results from the manager; and
updating the entitlement-specific machine learning algorithm based on the anomaly score and the review results from the manager.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving referential data associated with the access request.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the referential data comprises at least one of an identification of an application service hosted on the computing device, a change or an incident for the access request, and information about the technology asset.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the entitlement-specific machine learning algorithm is based on historical session information.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the anomaly score is higher in response to a first request to a technology asset.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the anomaly score is higher in response to a first request from a computing device.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
denying access to the technology asset in response to the review results comprising a rejection.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
granting access to the technology asset in response to the review results comprising an approval.
9. A method for automatically detecting a user behavior within a unified entitlement framework that may be automated, comprising:
in a technology access management system comprising at least one computer processor:
receiving an access request for a technology asset from a user on a computing device, the access request comprising session data comprising one or more of user identification, user location, key strokes, and user computing device identification;
granting the access request;
recording session data for an access session to the technology asset by the user; applying a machine learning algorithm using a machine learning model based on previously recorded or historical session data for the user to identify a repeatable or an automatable task; and
generating an alert that the identified task may be automated.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the previously recorded or historical session data comprises at least one of user keystrokes, a file accessed, and an application run.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the previously recorded or historical session data comprises previously recorded or historical session data for at least one other user.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the repeatable or an
automatable task comprises a task that is performed repeatedly by the user another user.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the repeatable or an
automatable task comprises restarting a service and sending logs.
14. The method of claim 9, further comprising:
automating the repeatable or an automatable task.
15. A computer-implemented system, comprising:
a computing device associated with a user;
a server comprising at least one computer processor and executing a computer program; and
a manager electronic device; wherein:
the computing device submits an access request for access a technology asset from a user, the access request comprising session data comprising one or more of user identification, user location, key strokes, and user computing device identification;
the computer program applies an entitlement-specific machine learning algorithm to the session data to generate an anomaly score; the computer program stores the session data and associated anomaly score;
the computer program sends a review request to the manager electronic device with the anomaly score;
the computer program receives review results from the manager electronic device; and
the computer program updates the entitlement-specific machine learning algorithm based on the anomaly score and the review results from the manager electronic device.
16. The system of claim 15, the computer program may receive referential data associated with the access request, wherein the referential data comprises at least one of an identification of an application service hosted on the computing device, a change or an incident for the access request, and information about the technology asset.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the entitlementspecific machine learning algorithm is based on historical session information.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the anomaly score is higher in response to a first request to a technology asset or in response to a first request from a computing device.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein access to the technology asset is denied in response to the review results comprising a rejection.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein access to the technology asset is granted in response to the review results comprising an approval.
</claims>
</document>
