<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B3/00,A61B3/10,A61B3/113,G06T7/00,G06T7/20,G06T7/50,G06T7/60,G06T7/62,G16H10/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BIOTRILLION, INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEVANI, Savan R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72521236
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR MEASURING PUPILLARY LIGHT REFLEX WITH A MOBILE PHONE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are disclosed for measuring pupillary light reflex and detecting diseases based on eyes features and trends in pupillary and other eye related features. In one example, disclosed is a system for evaluating pupillary features includes a device, a camera, a distance detector, a memory, and a control system. Image data corresponding to an eye of a user is received from the camera. Distance data associated with the eye of the user is received from the distance detector. The distance data is processed to determine a distance of the at least one eye of the user from the distance detector. The image data and the distance are processed to determine at least one pupillary feature. Based on the at least one pupillary feature, a health status associated with the user is determined.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A system for evaluating pupillary features, comprising:
a device having a front and a back;
a camera located on the front of the device;
a distance detector located on the front of the device, the distance detector including an emitter and a receiver;
a memory storing machine-readable instructions; and
a control system including one or more processors configured to execute the machinereadable instructions to:
receive, from the camera, image data corresponding to at least one eye of a user;
receive, from the distance detector, distance data associated with the at least one eye of the user;
process the distance data to determine a distance of the at least one eye of the user from the distance detector;
process the image data and the distance to determine at least one pupillary feature; and
based at least in part on the at least one pupillary feature, determine a health status associated with the user.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one pupillary feature includes a diameter of a pupil of the at least one eye of the user.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one pupillary feature includes an absolute measurement.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one pupillary feature is determined based at least in part on a preexisting measurement of a diameter of a corresponding iris of the at least one eye of the user.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein a first field of view of the camera is similar to a second field of view of the distance detector.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to adjust a brightness and a contrast of the at least one eye of the user relative to a background associated with the user.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to adjust a brightness and a contrast of the at least one eye of the user and a face of the user relative to a background associated with the user.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to remove frames with blinking associated with the at least one eye of the user.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to remove aberrations with eye movements associated with the at least one eye of the user.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the health status includes a pupillary light reflex.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the health status includes a level of impairment.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the level of impairment includes a level of alcohol impairment.
13. The system of claim 1 , wherein the health status includes a progression of Alzheimer' s disease.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the receiver of the distance detector includes an image capture assembly.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the camera includes the receiver of the distance detector.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the camera includes the distance detector.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the device includes the camera and the distance detector.
18. The system of claim 1, further comprising a display located on the front of the device.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the device further includes a visible light emitter on the front of the device.
20. The system of claim 1, wherein the emitter of the distance detector includes a visible light emitter.
21. The system of claim 1, wherein the emitter of the distance detector includes a light source configured to transilluminate a transparency with optical radiation to project an uncorrelated pattern of spots onto the at least one eye of the user, the transparency containing the uncorrelated pattern of spots.
22. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is a mobile device.
23. A method for evaluating pupillary features, comprising:
receiving, from a camera, image data corresponding to at least one eye of a user, the camera being located on a front of a device;
receiving, from a distance detector, distance data associated with the at least one eye of the user, distance detector being located on the front of the device and including an emitter and a receiver;
processing the distance data to determine a distance of the at least one eye of the user from the distance detector;
processing the image data and the distance to determine at least one pupillary feature; and
based at least in part on the at least one pupillary feature, determining a health status associated with the user.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the at least one pupillary feature includes a diameter of the pupil.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the at least one pupillary feature includes an absolute measurement.
26. The method of claim 23, wherein the at least one pupillary feature is determined based at least in part on a preexisting measurement of a diameter of a corresponding iris of the at least one eye of the user.
27. The method of claim 23, wherein a first field of view of the camera is similar to a second field of view of the distance detector.
28. The method of claim 23, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to adjust a brightness and a contrast of the at least one eye of the user relative to a background associated with the user.
29. The method of claim 28, further comprising: adjusting a brightness and a contrast of a face of the user relative to the background associated with the user.
30. The method of claim 23, further comprising: removing frames with blinking associated with the at least one eye of the user.
31. The method of claim 23, further comprising: removing aberrations with eye movements associated with the at least one eye of the user.
32. The method of claim 23, wherein the health status includes a pupillary light reflex.
33. The method of claim 23, wherein the health status includes a level of impairment.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein the level of impairment includes a level of alcohol impairment.
35. The method of claim 23, wherein the health status includes a progression of Alzheimer's disease.
36. The method of claim 23, wherein the receiver of the distance detector includes an image capture assembly.
37. The method of claim 23, wherein the camera includes the receiver of the distance detector.
38. The method of claim 23, wherein the camera includes the distance detector.
39. The method of claim 23, wherein the device includes the camera and the distance detector.
40. The method of claim 23, further comprising a display located on the front of the device.
41. The method of claim 23, wherein the device further includes a visible light emitter on the front of the device.
42. The method of claim 23, wherein the emitter of the distance detector includes a visible light emitter.
43. The method of claim 23, wherein the emitter of the distance detector includes a light source configured to transilluminate a transparency with optical radiation to project an uncorrelated pattern of spots onto the at least one eye of the user, the transparency containing the uncorrelated pattern of spots.
44. The method of claim 23, wherein the device is a mobile device.
</claims>
</document>
