<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H02G1/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
3M INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY (MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY)
CONNECTED INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUNDEL, DOUGLAS B.
KAUFMAN, ASSAF
BAR-ZIV, URI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69185726
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRICAL POWER CABLE PREPARATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Electrical power cable preparation techniques to connect to cable accessories for use in a power grid are described. In an example, a system comprises a cross-section sensing module. The cross-section sensing module comprises a camera configured to capture at least one image of an end-face of an electrical cable, a housing configured to position the end-face of the electrical cable substantially perpendicular to an optical axis of the camera and at an imaging distance from the camera, and at least one optical marker configured to indicate a diameter of the electrical cable. The system further comprises an electrical cable preparation device configured to cut at least one layer of an electrical cable, and a computing device configured to display a user interface, the user interface configured to accept user inputs controlling at least one setting of the cross-section sensing module and electrical cable preparation device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising:
a camera configured to capture at least one image of an end-face of an electrical cable;
a housing configured to position the end-face of the electrical cable substantially perpendicular to an optical axis of the camera and at an imaging distance from the camera; and
at least one optical marker configured to indicate a diameter of the electrical cable.
2. The device of claim 1, further comprising:
at least one sensor configured to determine when the end-face of the electrical cable is positioned at the imaging distance.
3. The device of any of claims 2, further comprising at least one computing device configured to:
determine, based on a signal received from the at least one sensor, that the end-face of the electrical cable is positioned at the imaging distance; and
cause, in response to determining that the end-face of the electrical cable is positioned at the imaging distance, the camera to capture at least one image of the endface of the electrical cable and the at least one optical marker
4. The device of claim 3, wherein the at least one computing device is further configured to:
determine at least one layer dimension of the electrical cable based on the image.
5. The device of any of claims 1-4, further comprising:
at least one light source configured to illuminate the end-face of the electrical cable.
6. The device of claim 5, further comprising:
a transparent protector configured to block the electrical cable from contacting the camera.
7. The device of claim 6, wherein the illumination of the end-face of the electrical cable is diffuse.
8. The device of any of claims 6-7, wherein the at least one light source includes a ring of light emitting diodes (LEDs) configured to emit light into the transparent protector, wherein the transparent protector is configured to diffuse the light towards the end-face of the electrical cable.
9. The device of any of claims 6-7, wherein the housing is configured to surround the camera, the at least one optical marker, the at least one sensor, the at least one light source, and the transparent shield, wherein an end of the housing is configured to accept a portion of the electrical cable including the end-face.
10. The device of claim 9, wherein the end of the housing configured to accept a portion of the electrical cable including the end-face includes an ambient light blocker configured to reduce ambient light entering the housing.
11. The device of claim 10, wherein the ambient light blocker comprises a lightcolored material configured to provide contrast in the image compared to an insulation screen layer of the electrical cable.
12. A system comprising:
a cross-section sensing module comprising:
a camera configured to capture at least one image of an end-face of an electrical cable;
a housing configured to position the end-face of the electrical cable substantially perpendicular to an optical axis of the camera and at an imaging distance from the camera; and
at least one optical marker configured to indicate an external diameter of the electrical cable;
an electrical cable preparation device configured to cut at least one layer of an electrical cable; and
a computing device configured to receive the at least one image.
13. The device of claim 12, the cross-section sensing module further comprising: at least one sensor configured to determine when the end-face of the electrical cable is positioned at the imaging distance.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein the computing device is further configured to: cause the camera to capture at least one image of the end-face of the electrical cable and the at least one optical marker upon determination that the end-face of the electrical cable is positioned at the imaging distance by the sensor;
determine the diameter of the electrical cable based on the image; and
determine at least one layer dimension of the electrical cable based on the image.
15. The device of claim 12, the cross-section sensing module further comprising: at least one light source configured to illuminate the end-face of the electrical cable; and
a transparent protector configured to block the electrical cable from contacting the camera, the transparent shield being transparent to the illumination of the at least one light source.
16. The device of claim 15, wherein the illumination of the end-face of the electrical cable is diffuse.
17. The device of any of claims 15-16, wherein the housing is configured to surround the camera, the at least one optical marker, the at least one sensor, the at least one light source, and the transparent shield, wherein an end of the housing is configured to accept a portion of the electrical cable including the end-face.
18. The device of claim 17, wherein the end of the housing configured to accept a portion of the electrical cable including the end-face includes an ambient light blocker configured to reduce ambient light entering the housing.
19. The device of claim 18, wherein the ambient light blocker comprises a lightcolored material configured to provide contrast in the image compared to an insulation screen layer of the electrical cable.
20. A method comprising:
determining, by a processor, that an end-face of an electrical cable is positioned at an imaging distance from a camera;
positioning, by one or more hinged member, at least one optical marker at a predetermined distance from an outside surface of the electrical cable;
capturing, by a camera communicatively coupled to the processor, an image of the end-face of the electrical cable and the at least one optical marker automatically upon determination that the end-face of the electrical cable is positioned at the imaging distance; and
determining, by the processor, at least one layer dimension of the electrical cable based on the image.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising:
determining, by the processor, one or more of a number of conductor strands, at least one strand gauge, an arrangement of conductor strands, a number of shield wires, a shape of shield wires, at least one shield wire dimension, a presence of a foil shield, and a color and gray level of insulation based on the image.
22. The method of claim 20, further comprising:
illuminating, by at least one light source, the end-face of the electrical cable with diffuse illumination; and
reducing, by an ambient light blocker, ambient illumination of the end-face of the electrical cable.
23. The method of any of claims 20-22, further comprising:
presenting, via a display of a user interface, information indicative of the at least one layer dimension.
24. A device comprising:
a camera configured to capture at least one image of an end-face of an electrical cable; and
a housing configured to position the end-face of the electrical cable substantially perpendicular to an optical axis of the camera and at an imaging distance from the camera, wherein image data based on the at least one image is indicative of at least one characteristic of the electrical cable.
25. The device of claim 24, further comprising a means for determining a diameter of the electrical cable.
26. The device of claim 25, wherein the means for determining a diameter of the electrical cable comprises an optical marker.
27. The device of claim 24, wherein the at least one image includes a predetermined pattern of light.
28. The device of claim 27, wherein the predetermined pattern of light indicates the depth of at least one layer of the electrical cable.
</claims>
</document>
