<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALCON
</assignee>

<inventors>
SARANGAPANI, RAMESH
VONTRESS, MARK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69187842
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR INTRAOCULAR LENS SELECTION USING EMMETROPIA ZONE PREDICTION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for intraocular lens (IOL) selection using emmetropia zone prediction include determining pre-operative measurements of an eye, estimating a post-operative anterior chamber depth (ACD) of an intraocular lens based on the pre-operative measurements, estimating a post-operative manifest refraction in spherical equivalent (MRSE) of the eye with the IOL implanted based on the pre-operative measurements and the estimated post-operative ACD, determining whether the eye with the IOL implanted is likely to be in an emmetropia zone based on the estimated post-operative MRSE, re-estimating the post-operative MRSE of the eye with the IOL implanted using an emmetropia zone prediction model or a non-emmetropia zone prediction model based on the emmetropia zone determining, and providing the re-estimated post-operative MRSE to a user to aid in selection of an IOL for implantation in the eye.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method comprising:
determining, by one or more computing devices implementing a prediction engine, one or more pre-operative measurements of an eye;
estimating, by the prediction engine based on the one or more pre-operative measurements of the eye, a post-operative anterior chamber depth (ACD) of an intraocular lens (IOL);
estimating, by the prediction engine based on the one or more pre-operative measurements of the eye and the estimated post-operative ACD, a post-operative manifest refraction in spherical equivalent (MRSE) of the eye with the IOL implanted;
determining, by the prediction engine based on the estimated post-operative MRSE, whether the eye with the IOL implanted is likely to be in an emmetropia zone;
re-estimating, by the prediction engine based on the emmetropia zone determining, the post-operative MRSE of the eye with the IOL implanted using an emmetropia zone prediction model or a non-emmetropia zone prediction model; and
providing, by the prediction engine, the re-estimated post-operative MRSE to a user to aid in selection of an IOL for implantation in the eye.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein estimating the post-operative ACD comprises: generating a first estimate using a geometric model of the eye; and
updating the first estimate using a neural network-based prediction model.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein estimating the post-operative MRSE comprises using a ray-trace algorithm using a model of the eye to generate a first estimate of the post operative MRSE.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein estimating the post-operative MRSE further comprises correcting the first estimate of the post-operative MRSE using a neural networkbased correction model.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the eye with the IOL implanted is in the emmetropia zone comprises using a classifier and a receiver operator characteristic curve.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the emmetropia zone prediction model comprises a neural network; and
the non-emmetropia zone prediction model comprises a neural network.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the pre-operative measurements of the eye include one or more of a group consisting of:
a white-to-white diameter of a cornea of the eye;
an average keratometry of the cornea; and
an axial length of the eye.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
estimating and re-estimating a post-operative MRSE of a second IOL; and
presenting the re-estimated post-operative MRSE of the IOL and the re-estimated post operative MRSE of the second IOL to the user to aid the user in the selection of the IOL for implantation in the eye;
wherein the IOL and the second IOL have different IOL powers.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
determining one or more post-operative measurements of the eye with the IOL implanted; and
updating, based on the one or more post-operative measurements of the eye, one or more models used by the prediction engine.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
estimating, by the prediction engine based on the one or more pre-operative measurements of the eye, a pre-operative ACD of a lens of the eye; and
further estimating the post-operative ACD based on the estimated pre-operative ACD.
11. A prediction engine comprising:
one or more processors;
wherein the prediction engine is configured to:
determine one or more pre-operative measurements of an eye;
estimate, based on the one or more pre-operative measurements of the eye, a post-operative anterior chamber depth (ACD) of an intraocular lens (IOL); estimate, based on the one or more pre-operative measurements of the eye and the estimated post-operative ACD, a post-operative manifest refraction in spherical equivalent (MRSE) of the eye with the IOL implanted;
determine, based on the estimated post-operative MRSE, whether the eye with the IOL implanted is likely to be in an emmetropia zone;
re-estimate, based on the emmetropia zone determining, the post-operative MRSE of the eye with the IOL implanted using an emmetropia zone prediction model or a non-emmetropia zone prediction model; and
provide the re-estimated post-operative MRSE to a user to aid in selection of an IOL for implantation in the eye.
12. The prediction engine of claim 11, wherein to estimate the post-operative ACD, the prediction engine is configured to:
generate a first estimate using a geometric model of the eye; and
update the first estimate using a neural network-based prediction model.
13. The prediction engine of claim 11, wherein to determine whether the eye with the IOL implanted is in the emmetropia zone, the prediction engine is configured to use a classifier and a receiver operator characteristic curve.
14. The prediction engine of claim 11, wherein:
the emmetropia zone prediction model comprises a neural network; and
the non-emmetropia zone prediction model comprises a neural network.
15. The prediction engine of claim 11, wherein the prediction engine is further configured to:
estimate and re-estimate a post-operative MRSE of a second IOL; and
present the re-estimated post-operative MRSE of the IOL and the re-estimated post operative MRSE of the second IOL to the user to aid the user in the selection of the IOL for implantation in the eye;
wherein the IOL and the second IOL have different IOL powers.
</claims>
</document>
