<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HENRY, JEROME
SZIGETI, THOMAS
BARTON, Robert E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650947
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SCALABLE HIERARCHICAL DATA AUTOMATION IN A NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for deploying data services in a centrally managed network in a scalable, hierarchical manner are described. An example method generally includes generating a topological description of the centrally managed network, the topological description identifying network entities in the centrally managed network and connections between network entities in the network. A data management hierarchy for the centrally managed network may be generated from the topological description of the centrally managed network, and the data management hierarchy may identify network entities at which data services may be deployed in the centrally managed network. Data services and data rules may be deployed to the identified network entities based on the data management hierarchy, and data may be processed in the centrally managed network through the deployed data services.
</abstract>

<claims>
WE CLAIM:
1. A method for deploying data services in a centrally managed network, comprising:
generating a topological description of the centrally managed network, the topological description identifying network entities in the centrally managed network and connections between the network entities in the centrally managed network; generating, from the topological description of the centrally managed network, a data management hierarchy for the centrally managed network, wherein the data management hierarchy identifies one or more of the network entities at which data services may be deployed in the centrally managed network;
deploying data services and data rules to the identified one or more network entities based on the data management hierarchy; and
processing data in the centrally managed network through the deployed data services.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the data management hierarchy comprises a hierarchy identifying computing resources available at each network entity of the network entities at which data services may be deployed in the centrally managed network, and wherein deploying data services to the identified network entities comprises deploying computationally inexpensive services to one or more of the network entities having limited computing resources and deploying computationally expensive services to network entities having less limited computing resources.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the data management hierarchy identifies network entities at which data services may be deployed in the centrally managed network based on processing load patterns at the identified one or more network entities.
4. The method of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein at least one of the deployed data services comprises a data normalization service configured to aggregate data from a plurality of the network entities in the centrally managed network and remove duplicate data from the aggregated data.
5. The method of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein at least one of the deployed data services comprises a data analysis service executing on a first network entity of the network entities, the data analysis service being configured to generate summary data from an aggregated data set and provide the generated summary data to a central network entity, and wherein the aggregated data set is stored in a time-series database located at the network entity.
6. The method of any of claims 1 to 5, further comprising:
monitoring the network entities in the centrally managed network for changes in resource availability; and
redistributing data services across the network entities in the centrally managed network based on the monitored changes in resource availability.
7. The method of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein deploying the data services and data rules to the identified network entities comprises generating, for each of the identified network entities, a local data graph describing data aggregated at each of the identified network entities and data generated by each of the identified network entities for consumption by other network entities in the centrally managed network.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising:
generating a global data graph based on an aggregation of the local data graphs generated for each of the identified network entities.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein processing data in the centrally managed network comprises:
identifying, based on data reported to a central network entity, one or more data sets to retrieve from time-series databases deployed at one or more of the network entities in the centrally managed network; and
retrieving the one or more data sets based on an identification in the global data graph of one or more of the network entities at which the one or more data sets are stored.
10. The method of any of claims 1 to 9, wherein the data rules comprise rules identifying a schedule at which raw data is to be uploaded from a plurality of the network entities on which time-series database services are deployed, the schedule being based on one or more of peak resource utilization at the plurality of the network entities and an amount of data that can be stored at each of the plurality of the network entities.
11. The method of any of claims 1 to 10, wherein:
the centrally managed network comprises a set of switches in a distributed network switch stack;
one switch in the set of switches is designated as a master switch; and deploying data services and data rules to the identified network entities comprises distributing a database service across switches in the set of switches other than the designated master switch.
12. A system, comprising:
a processor; and
a memory having instructions stored thereon which, when executed on the processor, performs an operation for deploying data services in a centrally managed network, the operation comprising:
generating a topological description of the centrally managed network, the topological description identifying network entities in the centrally managed network and connections between the network entities in the centrally managed network;
generating, from the topological description of the centrally managed network, a data management hierarchy for the centrally managed network, wherein the data management hierarchy identifies one or more of the network entities at which data services may be deployed in the centrally managed network;
deploying data services and data rules to the identified one or more network entities based on the data management hierarchy; and
processing data in the centrally managed network through the deployed data services.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the data management hierarchy comprises a hierarchy identifying computing resources available at each network entity of the network entities at which data services may be deployed in the centrally managed network, and wherein deploying data services to the identified network entities comprises deploying computationally inexpensive services to one or more of the network entities having limited computing resources and deploying computationally expensive services to network entities having less limited computing resources.
14. The system of claim 12 or 13, wherein the data management hierarchy identifies network entities at which data services may be deployed in the centrally managed network based on processing load patterns at the identified one or more network entities.
15. The system of any of claims 12 to 14, wherein the operation further comprises:
monitoring the network entities in the centrally managed network for changes in resource availability; and
redistributing data services across the network entities in the centrally managed network based on the monitored changes in resource availability.
16. The system of any of claims 12 to 15, wherein deploying the data services and data rules to the identified network entities comprises generating, for each of the identified network entities, a local data graph describing data aggregated at each of the identified network entities and data generated by each of the identified network entities for consumption by other network entities in the centrally managed network.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the operation further comprises:
generating a global data graph based on an aggregation of the local data graphs generated for each of the identified network entities.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein processing data in the centrally managed network comprises:
identifying, based on data reported to a central network entity, one or more data sets to retrieve from time-series databases deployed at one or more of the network entities in the centrally managed network; and retrieving the one or more data sets based on an identification in the global data graph of one or more of the network entities at which the one or more data sets are stored.
19. The system of any of claims 12 to 18, wherein the data rules comprise rules identifying a schedule at which raw data is to be uploaded from a plurality of the network entities on which time-series database services are deployed, the schedule being based on one or more of peak resource utilization at the plurality of the network entities and an amount of data that can be stored at each of the plurality of the network entities.
20. A computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by a processor, performs an operation for deploying data services in a centrally managed network, the operation comprising:
generating a topological description of the centrally managed network, the topological description identifying network entities in the centrally managed network and connections between the network entities in the centrally managed network; generating, from the topological description of the centrally managed network, a data management hierarchy for the centrally managed network, wherein the data management hierarchy identifies one or more of the network entities at which data services may be deployed in the centrally managed network;
deploying data services and data rules to the identified one or more network entities based on the data management hierarchy; and
processing data in the centrally managed network through the deployed data services.
21. Apparatus for deploying data services in a centrally managed network, comprising:
means for generating a topological description of the centrally managed network, the topological description identifying network entities in the centrally managed network and connections between the network entities in the centrally managed network;
means for generating, from the topological description of the centrally managed network, a data management hierarchy for the centrally managed network, wherein the data management hierarchy identifies one or more of the network entities at which data services may be deployed in the centrally managed network; means for deploying data services and data rules to the identified one or more network entities based on the data management hierarchy; and
means for processing data in the centrally managed network through the deployed data services.
22, The apparatus according to claim 21 further comprising means for
implementing the method according to any of claims 2 to 11.
23. A computer program, computer program product or computer readable medium comprising instructions which, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to carry out the steps of the method of any of claims 1 to 11.
</claims>
</document>
