<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/055,A61B6/00,A61B6/03,G06T11/00,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WISCONSIN ALUMNI RESEARCH FOUNDATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SZCZYKUTOWICZ, TIMOTHY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71732669
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM FOR HARMONIZING MEDICAL IMAGE PRESENTATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system for processing medical image data stores high information content volumetric (HICV) data reconstructed from different medical imaging devices, Images normally requiring differing image imaging parameters can instead be created by processing of the HICV data, importantly without access to the original reconstruction algorithms or machine. The invention also allows different medical images to be harmonized for ready comparison or according to a desired image sequence for particular diagnostic purpose without any need to rescan the patient or to enforce cumbersome universal protocol standards.
</abstract>

<claims>
What I claim is;
1. A medical image processing system for data acquired from a medical imaging device collecting acquisition data from patients that is reconstructed to provide volumetric data, the medical image processing system comprising:
a memory system storing high information content volumetric (HICV) data from multiple medical imaging devices after reconstruction of acquisition data acquired by the multiple medical imaging devices; and
a presentation processor communicating with the memory system and including an electronic computer executing a program stored in non-transitory media to:
(a) receive first and second image format requests for volumetric data from a given medical imaging device;
(b) process HICV data corresponding to the volumetric data to provide a first set of images having a first slice orientation and/or first spatial filtration; and
(c) process the HICV data to provide a second set of images having a second slice orientation and/or second spatial filtration where at least one of the first and second slice orientations or at least one of the first and second spatial filtrations differ;
whereby different image presentations can be made without repeated reconstruction of the acquisition data.
2. The medical image processing system of claim 1 wherein the HICV data is data obtained from the medical imaging devices using imaging parameters minimizing filtration of the volumetric data.
3. The medical image processing system of claim 1 wherein the HICV data is obtained from the medical imaging devices using a highest resolution of the medical imaging devices. 4. The medical image processing system of claim 3 wherein the HICV data is obtained from the medical imaging devices using imaging parameters that maximize the information content of HICV data.
5. The medical image processing system of claim 1 wherein the HICV data is obtained from a medical imaging machine before windowing of Fourier data underlying the HICV data.
6. The medical image processing system of claim 1 wherein the HICV data employs a reconstruction having parameters that disable maximum intensity projection processing and image segmentation.
7. The medical image processing system of claim 1 wherein the image format requests identify among multiple templates stored in the memory system, the templates describing the processing of the HICV data to produce a set of images according to an image format request.
8. The medical image processing system of claim 7 wherein the multiple templates further specify maximum intensity projections and/or image segmentation operations.
9. The medical image processing system of claim 1 wherein the presentation processor includes a network interface for communicating with at least one display terminal for displaying human readable images to a healthcare professional; and wherein the electronic computer further executes to communicate with a healthcare professional at a display terminal by providing human readable images and receiving commands through the display terminal from the healthcare professional to modify the processing of the given HICV data.
10. The medical image processing system of claim 1 wherein the HICV data includes metadata identifying a medical imaging device and wherein the image format request identifies a script associated with a medical imaging device providing the HICV data, the script providing additional filtration information.
1 1. The medical image processing system of claim 10 wherein the memory system further stores at least one given machine image corresponding to the given HICV data but produced by the medical imaging device in a reconstruction different from the reconstruction producing the given HICV data; and
wherein the presentation processor develops a script by determining a processing of the given HICV data that produces images matching the given machine image, that processing defining the script.
12. The medical image processing system of claim 1 wherein the presentation processor includes a network interface for communicating with at least one display terminal for displaying images to a healthcare professional and wherein the electronic computer further executes the program to:
(d) process second HICV data to provide a third set of images having a third slice orientation and/or third spatial filtration;
(e) receive a command from a display terminal identifying the first set of images and a request to match the first set of images and third set of images; and
(f) processes the second HICV data a according to the processing of the given HICV data used to produce the first set of images to provide a fourth set of images and transmit the fourth set of images to the display terminal.
13. The medical image processing system of claim 1 wherein the presentation processor includes a network interface for communicating with at least one display terminal for displaying images to a healthcare professional and wherein the electronic computer further executes the program to:
(d) receive a third set of images not obtained from HICV data having a third slice orientation and/or third spatial filtration;
(e) receive a command from a display terminal to match the first set of images to the third set of images; and (f) process the given HICV data to provide a fourth set of images to have a third slice orientation and/or third spatial filtration and transmit the third set of images and fourth set of images to the display terminal.
14. The medical image processing system of claim 13 wherein the third set of images not obtained from HICV data includes metadata describing the third slice orientation and/or third spatial filtration and the step (f) reads the metadata to provide the processing of the given HICV data to provide the fourth set of images.
15. The medical image processing system of claim 1 wherein the presentation processor includes a network interface for communicating with at least one display terminal for displaying images to a healthcare professional and further including the step of:
(d) transmitting the first set of images and the second set of images over the network to at least one display terminal.
16. The medical image processing system of claim 1 wherein the given HICV data includes first and second volumetric data having a differences selected from the group consisting of: different regions of the body and different acquisition parameters.
17. The medical image processing system of claim 1 wherein the devices are selected from the group consisting of CT, MRI, PET, and SPECT imaging machines.
18. The medical image processing system of claim 1 wherein the electronic computer further executes the program to process the HICV data directly using machine learning in which the HICV is processed by a program trained using a training set of HICV data and clinical conditions to provide an output indicating a clinical condition.
</claims>
</document>
