<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/0476,G06N3/02,G06N3/08,G06N3/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF ADELAIDE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAUMERT, MATHIAS
HARTMANN, Simon
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73780631
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR CLASSIFYING SLEEP RELATED BRAIN ACTIVITY
</title>

<abstract>
A machine learning method and system for classifying sleep related brain electrical activity is disclosed. The method comprises receiving brain electrical activity data defining a time dependent variation of brain electrical activity as a function of time and processing the brain electrical activity data to determine one or more time dependent features each characterising an aspect of the brain electrical activity as a function of time. The method further includes classifying the brain electrical activity at the selected time based on the one or more time dependent features, wherein the machine learning system is trained on a training set of brain electrical activity data to apply a classification of brain electrical activity for a given time based on values of the one or more time dependent features as determined for an extended time period relative to the given time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented machine learning method for classifying sleep related brain electrical activity at a selected time, the method comprising:
receiving brain electrical activity data defining a time dependent variation of brain electrical activity as a function of time;
processing the brain electrical activity data to determine one or more time dependent features each characterising an aspect of the brain electrical activity as a function of time;
classifying by a machine learning system the brain electrical activity at the selected time based on the one or more time dependent features, wherein the machine learning system is trained on a training set of brain electrical activity data to apply a classification of brain electrical activity for a given time based on values of the one or more time dependent features as determined for an extended time period relative to the given time.
2. The computer-implemented machine learning method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning system is based on a recurrent neural network (RNN).
3. The computer-implemented machine learning method of claim 2, wherein the RNN is a longshort term memory (LSTM) implementation.
4. The computer-implemented machine learning method of claim 2, wherein the RNN is a bidirectional LSTM (Bi-LSTM) implementation.
5. The computer-implemented machine learning method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the one or more time dependent features comprises a power measure characterising a variation in power of brain electrical activity as a function of time.
6. The computer-implemented machine learning method of claim 5, wherein the power measure comprises a Hjorth activity.
7. The computer-implemented machine learning method of claim 5 or 6, wherein the power measure comprises a Band Power Descriptor (BPD).
8. The computer-implemented machine learning method of any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein the one or more time dependent features comprises an energy measure characterising a variation in energy of brain electrical activity as a function of time.
9. The computer-implemented machine learning method of claim 8, wherein the energy measure comprises a Teager Energy Operator (TEO).
10. The computer-implemented machine learning method of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the one or more time dependent features comprises an entropy measure characterising a variation in entropy of brain electrical activity as a function of time.
1 1. The computer-implemented machine learning method of claim 10, wherein the entropy measure comprises a Shannon entropy.
12. The computer-implemented machine learning method of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the one or more time dependent features comprises a frequency shift measure characterising a shift in frequency of the brain electrical activity as a function of time.
13. The computer-implemented machine learning method of claim 12, wherein the frequency shift measure comprises a Differential Variance (DV).
14. The computer-implemented machine learning method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the training set of brain electrical activity data is imbalanced and the method further comprises compensating for the imbalanced training set of brain electrical activity data for training the machine learning system.
15. The computer-implemented machine learning method of claim 14, wherein compensating for the imbalanced training set of brain electrical activity data comprises adopting an error function for training the machine learning system that penalises false classification of an underrepresented class in the brain electrical activity data.
16. The computer-implemented machine learning method of claim 15, wherein the error function is a -score .
17. The computer-implemented machine learning method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further comprising pre-processing the brain electrical activity data and/or the training set of brain electrical activity data to reduce subject related variability.
18. The computer-implemented machine learning method of claim 17, wherein pre-processing the brain electrical activity data and/or the training set of brain electrical activity data comprises removing artefacts present in the brain electrical activity data associated with a secondary physiological electrical field.
19. The computer-implemented machine learning method of claim 18, wherein removing artefacts present in the brain electrical activity data associated with a secondary physiological electrical field comprises processing the brain electrical activity data with respect to supplementary data associated with the secondary physiological electric field.
20. The computer-implemented machine learning method of claim 19, wherein the artefacts are cardiac field artefacts and the supplementary data is an electrocardiogram (ECG) signal.
21. The computer-implemented machine learning method of claim 19, wherein the artefacts are eye movement artefacts and the supplementary data is an electrooculogram (EOG) signal.
22. The computer-implemented machine learning method of any one of claims 19 to 21, wherein processing the brain electrical activity data with respect to supplementary data includes conducting a discrete wavelet transform process on the brain electrical activity data to generate decomposed brain electrical activity data followed by an independent component analysis on the decomposed brain electrical activity data and the supplementary data to find statistically independent sources.
23. The computer-implemented machine learning method of any one of claims 17 to 22, wherein pre processing further comprises:
resampling the brain electrical activity data to a predetermined sample rate; and/or
applying a band pass filter to divide the brain electrical activity data into a plurality of frequency bands.
24. The computer-implemented machine learning method of any one of claims 1 to 23, wherein the brain electrical activity data is received and classified substantially in real time.
25. A classification system for classifying sleep related brain electrical activity, the system comprising:
a sensor for receiving brain electrical activity data defining a time dependent variation of brain electrical activity as a function of time;
a classifier comprising one or more processors configured to carry out the method of any one of claims 1 to 24; and
a display for displaying brain electrical activity data and the determined classification.
26. The classification system of claim 25, wherein the sensor is an electroencephalography (EEG) recording system.
27. The classification system of claim 25, wherein the sensor is configured as a headband arrangement comprising one or more electrodes.
28. The classification system of claim 25, wherein the sensor is configured as a flexible patch arrangement comprising a single electrode.
29. The classification system of claim 25, wherein the sensor is configured as an in-ear wearable arrangement comprising one or more electrodes.
30. A classification system for classifying sleep related brain electrical activity, comprising: one or more processors;
memory in electronic communication with the one or more processors; and
instructions stored in the memory and operable, when executed by the processor, to cause the system to carry out the method of any one of claims 1 to 24.
</claims>
</document>
