<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SYSTEM
</assignee>

<inventors>
OKUDA, DARIN T.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72043912
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDICATION RETURN PLATFORM FOR MANAGING RETURNS OF EXCESS MEDICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A medication return platform for managing returns of excess medications receives shipments of excess medications from users and re-distributes and/or disposes the excess medications. To facilitate the return process, the medication return platform may compensate users for returned medications. Compensation may be received from subscribers that purchase unexpired excess medications for re-distribution. The medication return platform may distribute user health information collected during the medication return process to providers and subscribers to provide accurate feedback on the benefits and side effects of medications.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method of managing excess medications comprising:
providing a medication return platform having a graphical user interface that is remotely accessible by a plurality of users;
receiving, by the medication return platform, user data including medical information and excess distributed medication information from a user included in the plurality of users; verifying, by the medication return platform, accuracy of the excess distributed medication information;
generating, by the medication return platform, a shipping label and a return authorization from for the user;
receiving, from the user, a completed return authorization form and a shipment of medication sent using the shipping label;
matching, by the medication return platform, the verified excess distributed medication information with the shipment of medication; and
distributing, by the medication return platform, compensation for the shipment of medication.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the medical information includes condition history and treatment history relating to multiple sclerosis, glioblastoma multiforme, Parkinson's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, multiple myeloma or other forms of cancer, neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder, sleep disorders, cystic fibrosis, hematological malignancies, Alzheimer's disease or other neurodegenerative or neurological conditions, hemophilia, hepatitis, HIV/AIDS, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, solid organ tumors, organ transplants, hereditary amyloidosis, metabolic deficiencies, hormonal deficiencies, pulmonary hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, spinal muscular atrophy, muscular dystrophies, or other muscle disorders.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the graphical user interface is provided by smartphone, tablet or personal computer.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the compensation is a donation to a charity selected by the user.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the compensation is an electronic payment to the user comprising a bank wire, automatic deposit, account credit, or redeemable points.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the verifying further comprises:
transmitting the excess distributed medication information to a provider;
receiving, from the provider, verification information about the excess distributed medication;
receiving, from the user, an image of a medication described in the excess distributed medication information; and
matching the verification information received from the provider with the image of the medication and the excess distributed medication information.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the image of the medication includes a LOT number and expiration information.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the provider is a healthcare provider, health insurance company, pharmacy, pharmaceutical manufacturer, pharmacy benefit manager, government agency, or government healthcare system.
9. The method of claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8, further comprising;
receiving compensation information from the user; and
authorizing, by the medication return platform, the compensation for the shipment of medication in response to verifying a condition of the shipment of medication and validating the compensation information·
10. The method of claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9, further comprising:
generating, by the medication return platform, a subscriber notification including one or more pieces of data included in the user data;
distributing, by the medication return platform, the subscriber notification to a subscriber;
in response to the distributing, receiving payment for the shipment of medication from the subscriber; and
distributing, by the medication return platform, the shipment of medication to the subscriber.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the subscriber is a patient, healthcare provider, health insurance company, pharmacy, pharmaceutical manufacturer, pharmacy benefit manager, government agency, or government healthcare system.
12. A system for managing excess medications, comprising:
a processor and memory connected to each other;
a display connected to the processor; and
a plurality of lines of instructions stored in the memory and executed by the processor that is configured to:
provide, on the display, a medication return platform having a graphical user interface that is remotely accessible by a plurality of users;
receive, by the system for managing excess medications, user data including medical information and excess distributed medication information from a user included in the plurality of users;
verify, by the system for managing excess medications, accuracy of the excess distributed medication information;
generate, by the system for managing excess medications, a shipping label and a return authorization from for the user;
receive, from the user, a completed return authorization form and a shipment of medication sent using the shipping label;
match, by the system for managing excess medications, the verified excess distributed medication information with the shipment of medication; and
distribute, by the medication return platform, compensation for the shipment of medication.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the medical information includes condition history and treatment history relating to multiple sclerosis, glioblastoma multiforme, Parkinson's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, multiple myeloma or other forms of cancer, neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder, sleep disorders, cystic fibrosis, hematological malignancies, Alzheimer's disease or other neurodegenerative or neurological conditions, hemophilia, hepatitis, HIV/AIDS, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, solid organ tumors, organ transplants, hereditary amyloidosis, metabolic deficiencies, hormonal deficiencies, pulmonary hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, spinal muscular atrophy, muscular dystrophies, or other muscle disorders.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to verify accuracy of the distributed excess medication information by:
transmitting the excess distributed medication information to a provider;
receiving, from the provider, verification information about the excess distributed medication;
receiving, from the user, an image of a medication described in the excess distributed medication information; and
matching the verification information received from the provider with the image of the medication and the excess distributed medication information.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the image of the medication includes a LOT number and expiration information.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the provider is a healthcare provider, health insurance company, pharmacy, pharmaceutical manufacturer, pharmacy benefit manager, government agency, or government healthcare system.
17. The system of claim 12, 13, 14, 15 or 16, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive compensation information from the user; and
authorize, by the system for managing excess medications, compensation for the shipment of medication in response to verifying a condition of the shipment of medication and validating the compensation information.
18. The system of claim 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 or 17, wherein the processor is further configured to:
generate, by the system for managing excess medications, a subscriber notification including one or more pieces of data included in the user information;
distribute, by the system for managing excess medications, the subscriber notification to a subscriber;
in response to the subscriber notification, receive compensation for the shipment of medication from the subscriber; and
distribute, by the system for managing excess medications, the shipment of medication to the subscriber.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the subscriber is a patient, healthcare provider, health insurance company, pharmacy, pharmaceutical manufacturer, pharmacy benefit manager, government agency, or government healthcare system.
20. A method of managing excess medications comprising:
providing a medication return platform having a graphical user interface that is remotely accessible by a plurality of users;
receiving, by the medication return platform, user data including medical information and excess distributed medication information from a user included in the plurality of users; verifying, by the medication return platform, accuracy of the excess distributed medication information;
generating, by the medication return platform, a shipping label and a return authorization from for the user;
receiving, from the user, a completed return authorization form and a shipment of medication sent using the shipping label;
matching, by the medication return platform, the verified excess distributed medication information with the shipment of medication; and
based on the matching, accepting, by the medication return platform, the shipment of medication for re-distribution.
</claims>
</document>
