<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B29C64/30,B33Y30/00,B33Y40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PEKTECH HOLDINGS INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
PEKIC, Mateo Petar
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72666510
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED PART REMOVAL FOR ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus for facilitating automated removal of a printed part from a 3D printer's print bed includes a print surface applied to the print bed, wherein the print surface has properties which change with temperature, affecting adhesion to the printed part. Cycling the temperature of the print bed enables adhesion of the part to the print bed during printing and release of the part from the print bed upon completion of the print. The print bed may be oriented vertically or at an incline to the horizontal to enable gravitational forces to pull the printed part away from the print bed upon completion of the print. Peltier devices or other cooling mechanisms may be provided to facilitate cooling of the print bed for release of the part. In certain embodiments, the print bed is configured to provide mechanical part removal to automatically dislodge the printed part from the print bed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A print surface applied to a print bed to facilitate release of a part printed by a 3D printer from the print bed, wherein the print surface comprises a material which bonds to the deposited printing material when heated, and once cooled, loses its bond to the deposited printing material due at least in part to a change in surface energy.
2. The print surface according to claim 1 wherein the material bonds to the deposited printing material when the print surface is heated to an operating temperature, wherein the operating temperature is in the range of -20째C and 275째C.
3. The print surface according to either one of claims 1 and 2, wherein the material bonds to the deposited printing material when the print surface is heated to an operating temperature within a certain range of the glass transition temperature of the deposited printing material.
4. The print surface according to any one of claims 1 and 3, wherein the print bed is oriented vertically, substantially vertically, or at an incline to the horizontal, and as the print surface is cooled from the operating temperature the surface energy decreases sufficiently such that gravity supplies at least 80% of the energy needed to overcome the mechanisms adhering the part to the print bed.
5. The print surface according to claim 4 wherein a decrease in temperature of the print surface in the range of 5째C to 20째C from the operating temperature results in a sufficient decrease of the surface energy such that gravity supplies at least 80% of the energy needed to overcome the mechanisms adhering the part to the print bed.
6. The print surface according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the material comprises a glass-reinforced epoxy laminate material.
7. A method of facilitating automated removal of a printed part from a print bed of a 3D printer, comprising:
applying to the print bed a print surface to facilitate release of the printed part from the print bed, wherein the print surface comprises a material which bonds to the deposited printing material when heated, and once cooled, loses its bond to the deposited printing material, or a print surface to the print bed according to any one of claims 1 to 6; and
cycling the temperature of the print surface to change the properties of the print surface to enable adhesion of the part to the print bed during printing and release of the part from the print bed upon completion of the print.
8. The method according to claim 7 comprising orienting the print bed vertically or substantially vertically to enable gravity to pull the printed part away from the print bed upon completion of the print.
9. The method according to claim 7 comprising orienting the print bed at an incline to the horizontal to enable gravity to pull the printed part off the print bed upon completion of the print.
10. The method according to any one of claims 7 to 9 comprising providing Peltier devices under the print bed to facilitate cooling of the print bed for release of the part from the printed bed.
11. The method according to any one of claims 7 to 10 comprising conducting a sweep of the print bed upon completion of the print to dislodge the printed part.
12. The method according to any one of claims 7 to 11 comprising vibrating the print bed upon completion of the print to dislodge the printed part.
13. The method according to any one of claims 7 to 12 comprising using one or more of an ion gun, air blade, air compressor, and anti-static compound applied to the print surface to assist with dislodging the printed part upon completion of the print.
14. The method according to any one of claims 7 to 13 wherein the 3D printer comprises a Mendel style printer.
15. Apparatus for facilitating automated removal of a printed part from a 3D printer, comprising: a print surface applied to the print bed of the 3D printer to facilitate release of printed part from a print bed, wherein the print surface comprises a material which bonds to the deposited printing material when heated, and once cooled, loses its bond to the deposited printing material, or a print surface according to any one of claims 1 to 6 applied to the print bed of the 3D printer; and one or more heating and/or cooling mechanisms to cycle the temperature of the print surface to change the properties of the print surface to enable adhesion of the part to the print bed during printing and release of the part from the print bed upon completion of the print.
16. Apparatus according to claim 15 comprising a support for orienting the print bed vertically or substantially vertically to enable gravity to pull the printed part away from the print bed upon completion of the print.
17. Apparatus according to claim 15 comprising a support for orienting the print bed at an incline to the horizontal to enable gravity to pull the printed part off the print bed upon completion of the print.
18. Apparatus according to any one of claims 15 to 17 comprising a Peltier device installed under the print bed to facilitate cooling of the print bed for release of the part from the printed bed.
19. Apparatus according to any one of claims 15 to 18 comprising a sweeper operable to move across the print bed upon completion of the print to dislodge the printed part.
20. Apparatus according to any one of claims 15 to 19 comprising a vibration mechanism for vibrating the print bed upon completion of the print to dislodge the printed part.
21. Apparatus according to any one of claims 15 to 20 comprising one or more of an ion gun, air blade, air compressor, and anti-static compound applied to the print surface to assist with dislodging the printed part upon completion of the print.
22. Apparatus according to any one of claims 15 to 21 comprising a filament detection mechanism to track the use of printing material filament.
23. Apparatus according to claim 22 wherein the filament detection mechanism comprises a load cell incorporated with the filament mount.
24. A 3D printer incorporating apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 6 or any one of claims 15 to 23.
25. A system for control and management of print jobs to a plurality of 3D printers in accordance with claim 24.
26. System according to claim 25 configured to perform one or more of the following functions: remote printer control, print job delegation, print job scheduling, print failure detection, quality checks, inventory management, automatic filament setting generation, and print packing.
27. System according to claim 26 wherein data concerning printer status is aggregated from the plurality of 3D printers and is used to inform the one or more functions executed by the system.
28. Apparatus having any new and inventive feature, combination of features, or subcombination of features as described herein.
29. Methods having any new and inventive steps, acts, combination of steps and/or acts or sub combination of steps and/or acts as described herein.
</claims>
</document>
