<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/055,A61B5/11,A61B6/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
VOGTMEIER, GEREON
JOHNSON, MARK
SISODIA, RAJENDRA
HELLE, MICHAEL
VUPPALA, SUNIL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64901935
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STRESS SUPPORT SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to diagnostic imaging. In order to provide an improved, efficient, and/or fast procedure for adapting the physical stress during diagnostic imaging, a stress support system is provided. The stress support system comprises a stress determination device and at least one stress inducing device with a support device and a control device. The support device is attachable to a patient and configured to induce a 5 physical stress to a body part of the patient. The stress determination device is configured to determine a required stress level for a medical scan of the body part. The control device is configured to modify the support device to adjust the induced physical stress to the required stress level.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A stress support system (10) for diagnostic imaging, comprising:
a stress determination device (12); and
at least one stress inducing device (14a, 14b) with a support device (16a, 16b) and a control device (18a, 18b);
wherein the support device is attachable to a patient and configured to induce a physical stress to a body part of the patient;
wherein the stress determination device is configured to determine a required stress level for a medical scan of the body part; and
wherein the control device is configured to modify the support device to adjust the induced physical stress to the required stress level.
2. Stress support system according to claim 1,
wherein the at least one stress inducing device comprises:
A) a static stress inducing device (14a) with a first support device (16a) and a first control device (18a);
wherein the first support device is attachable to the patient and configured to induce a static physical stress to the body part;
wherein the stress determination device is configured to determine a required static stress level for a medical scan; and
wherein the first control device is configured to modify the first support device to adjust the induced static physical stress to the required static stress level; and/or
B) a dynamic stress inducing device (14a) with a second support device (16a) and a second control device (18a);
wherein the second support device is attachable to the patient and configured to induce a dynamic stress to the body part while being in motion;
wherein the stress determination device is configured to determine a required dynamic stress level for a medical scan; and
wherein the second control device is configured to modify the second support device to adjust the induced dynamic physical stress to the required dynamic stress level.
3. Stress support system according to claim 1 or 2,
wherein the stress determination device is configured to determine a required direction of the physical stress applied to the body part for a medical scan; and
wherein the control device is configured to modify the support device to adjust the induced physical stress to the required direction.
4. Stress support system according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein the stress determination device is configured to determine at least one of the following:
a plurality of required stress levels for a series of medical scans; and a minimum-maximum range of the required stress levels to be applied to the body part; and
wherein the control device is configured to modify the support device to adjust the induced physical stress to the plurality of required stress levels for the series of medical scans and/or to adjust the induced physical stress within the minimum-maximum range of the required stress levels.
5. Stress support system according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein at least one of the following is determined based on historical data of the patient or similar patients:
one or a plurality of the required stress levels for one or a series of medical scans; and
a minimum-maximum range of the required stress levels to be applied to the body part.
6. Stress support system according to any of the preceding claims, further comprising:
a user interface (20);
wherein the user interface is configured to receive a user input to provide at least one of the following:
i) defining at least one required stress level for a medical scan;
ii) defining a minimum-maximum range of the required stress levels to be applied to the body part; iii) starting applying a physical stress; and
iv) stopping applying a physical stress; and
wherein the stress determination device is connectable to the user interface and configured to determine one or a plurality of required stress levels and/or a minimummaximum range of the required stress levels based on the user input; and/or
wherein the control device is connectable to the user interface and configured to start or stop modifying the support device to inducethe physical stress based on the user input.
7. Stress support system according to any of the preceding claims, further comprising:
at least one safety means (22);
wherein the at least one safety means is configured to provide at least one safety parameter for limiting a maximum induced stress level; and
wherein the control device is configured to stop applying the physical stress to the body part of the patient or to re-adjust the induced physical stress level, if the at least one provided safety parameter matches a predefined criterion.
8. Stress support system according to claim 7,
wherein the at least one safety means comprises an applied stress measuring device (22a) configured to determine an absolute value of the induced stress level as the at least one safety parameter; and
wherein the control device is configured to stop applying the physical stress to the body part of the patient or to re-adjust the induced physical stress level, if the absolute value of the induced stress level matches a predefined criterion.
9. Stress support system according to claim 7 or 8,
wherein the at least one safety means comprises a pain sensing device (22b) configured to measure a biometric signal indicative of an acute pain level of the patient as the at least one safety parameter;
wherein the acute pain level is determined by the measured biometric signal based on a pain -biometrics model, which defines a relationship between an acute pain and a biometric signal based on historical data of the patient or similar patients; and
wherein the control device is configured to stop applying the physical stress to the body part of the patient or to re-adjust the induced physical stress level, if the determined acute pain level matches a predefined criterion.
10. Stress support system according to claim 9, further comprising:
a residual stress sensing device (24);
wherein the residual stress sensing device is configured to measure a resultant stress due to an external pressure for correlating the determined acute pain level.
11. Stress support system according to any of claims 7 to 10,
wherein the at least one safety means comprises an image based feedback for providing at least one of the following as the at least one safety parameter:
an imaging sequence;
an image quality; and
an imaging parameter.
12. A medical imaging system (100), comprising:
a stress support system according to any of claims 1 to 11; and a medical imaging device (26);
wherein the stress support system is configured to induce a physical stress to a body part of a patient at a required stress level for a medical scan; and
wherein the medical imaging device is configured to perform a medical scan of the body part to acquire image data, when the required stress level is reached.
13. Medical imaging system according to claim 12,
wherein the stress determination device is configured to determine a plurality of required stress levels for a series of medical scans; and
wherein the medical imaging device is configured to perform a series of medical scans of the body part at the plurality of required stress levels; and
wherein the medical imaging device is configured to be gated in a manner such that the image data of the series of medical scans are reconstructed at the same position of the body part.
14. Medical imaging system according to claims 13,
wherein the medical imaging device is configured to perform a series of medical scans in synchronization with a motion state and/or a position of the body part.
15. Medical imaging system according to claim 14,
wherein a trigger signal is provoked when the support device is in a predefined position; and
wherein the medical imaging device is configured to perform a medical scan upon receiving the trigger signal.
16. Medical imaging system according to claim 14 or 15, further comprising:
a motion tracking device (28);
wherein the motion tracking device is configured to track a motion state and/or a position of the body part whilst being in motion; and
wherein the medical imaging device is configured to perform a medical scan of the body part if a desired motion state and/or a desired position is reached.
17. Medical imaging system according to any of claims 14 to 16, further comprising:
a force sensing device (30);
wherein the force sensing device is configured to measure a force between the body object and the attached support device; and
wherein the medical imaging device is configured to perform a medical scan of the body part if a desired force is reached.
18. Medical imaging system according to any of claims 14 to 17,
wherein the medical imaging device is configured to provide a dedicated sequence to track a motion state and/or a position of the body part whilst being in motion;
wherein the medical imaging device is configured to perform a medical scan of the body part if a desired motion state and/or a desired position is reached;
19. Medical imaging system according to any of claims 14 to 18, further comprising: a plurality of markers attachable to the body part;
wherein the medical imaging device is configured to provide a dedicated sequence to track motion states and/or positions of the plurality of the attached markers; and wherein the medical imaging device is configured to perform a medical scan of the body part if desired motion states and/or desired positions of the plurality of the attached markers are reached.
20. Medical imaging system according to claim 18 or 19,
wherein the dedicated sequence is at least one selected from:
a navigator echo; and
a fast imaging sequence with a low resolution.
21. Medical imaging system according to claim 13,
wherein the image data of the series of medical scans are retrospectively reconstructed and sorted according to different motion states and/or different positions of the body part after image acquisition.
22. Medical imaging system according to any of claims 12 to 21,
wherein the medical imaging device is configured to initiate and/or terminate scanning based on a user input and/or a predetermined acute pain level.
23. A method (200) for operating a stress support system according to any of claims 1 to 11 for diagnostic imaging, comprising the following steps:
determining (202) a required stress level for a medical scan;
attaching (204) a support device to a patient for induce a physical stress to a body part of the patient; and
using (206) a control device to modify the support device to adjust the induced physical stress to the required stress level.
</claims>
</document>
