<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B3/10,A61B6/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WISCONSIN ALUMNI RESEARCH FOUNDATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAESEKE, PAUL
WAGNER, MARTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74042889
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MOTION-ADJUSTED DEVICE GUIDANCE USING VASCULAR ROADMAPS
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method is provided for creating motion-adjusted or motion- compensated images of a patient to guide an interventional medical procedure. The method includes displaying a static roadmap and a plurality of dynamic images to show the interventional medical device aligned on the static roadmap using a motion transformation. Alignment of the interventional medical device on the static roadmap is based on a user selection of one of motion compensation of the interventional medical device relative to the static roadmap to produce a plurality of images that do not show patient motion or motion adjustment of the static roadmap relative to the interventional medical device to produce a plurality of images that show patient motion.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of creating motion-adjusted images of a patient to guide an interventional medical procedure, the method comprising:
acquiring a first plurality of images of a patient having non-contrast enhanced vasculature;
acquiring a second plurality of images of the patient having contrast enhanced vasculature;
generating a static roadmap of vasculature of the patient using the first plurality of images and the second plurality of images;
generating a motion model of the patient using the first plurality of images and the second plurality of images;
acquiring a third plurality of images of the patient with an interventional medical device deployed within the patient;
generating motion tracking data of one of the patient or the interventional medical device using the third plurality of images;
generating a motion transformation using the motion tracking data and the motion model;
displaying the static roadmap and the third plurality of images to show the interventional medical device aligned on the static roadmap using the motion transformation and, wherein alignment of the interventional medical device on the static roadmap is based on a user selection of one of:
motion compensation of the interventional medical device relative to the static roadmap to produce a plurality of images that do not show patient motion; and
motion adjustment of the static roadmap relative to the interventional medical device to produce a plurality of images that show patient motion.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising extracting the interventional medical device from the third plurality of images using a neural network.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprising generating the motion model by determining curvilinear features using the first plurality of images.
4. The method of claim 1 further comprising generating the motion tracking roadmap by determining curvilinear features within third plurality of images
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining a respiratory state of the patient using the third plurality of images and using the motion model and the respiratory state to determine motion adjustments reflected in the motion transformation.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein determining the respiratory state of the patient includes calculating a mean brightness in one dimension using the third plurality of images.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein the respiratory state of the patient is determined using a transformation configured to generate a translation vector for one or more pixels within the third plurality of images.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the first plurality of images, the second plurality of images, and the third plurality of images includes three-dimensional images.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein motion compensation of the interventional medical device relative to the static roadmap to produce a plurality of images that do not show patient motion presents a static display relative to the user illustrating only movement of the interventional medical device due to advancement by the user.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein motion adjustment of the static roadmap relative to the interventional medical device to produce a plurality of images that show patient motion presents a dynamic display relative to the user illustrating movement of patient and the interventional medical device due to physiological motion and advancement of the interventional medical device by the user.
11. A fluoroscopy imaging system comprising: an x-ray source assembly coupled at one end and a x-ray detector array assembly coupled at an opposing end;
a computer system configured to:
control the x-ray source assembly and the x-ray detector array assembly to acquire a first plurality of images of a patient having non-contrast enhanced vasculature;
control the x-ray source assembly and the x-ray detector array assembly to acquire a second plurality of images of the patient having contrast enhanced vasculature;
generate a static roadmap of vasculature of the patient using the first plurality of images and the second plurality of images;
generate a motion model of the patient using the first plurality of images and the second plurality of images;
control the x-ray source assembly and the x-ray detector array assembly to acquire a third plurality of images of the patient with an interventional medical device deployed within the patient;
generate motion tracking data of one of the patient or the interventional medical device using the third plurality of images;
generate a motion transformation using the motion tracking data and the motion model;
display the static roadmap and the third plurality of images to show the interventional medical device aligned on the static roadmap using the motion transformation and, wherein alignment of the interventional medical device on the static roadmap is based on a user selection of one of:
motion compensation of the interventional medical device relative to the static roadmap to produce a plurality of images that do not show patient motion; and
motion adjustment of the static roadmap relative to the interventional medical device to produce a plurality of images that show patient motion.
12. The system of claim 11 wherein the computer system is further configured to extract the interventional medical device from the third plurality of images using a neural network.
13. The system of claim 11 wherein the computer system is further configured to generate the motion model by determining curvilinear features using the first plurality of images.
14. The system of claim 11 wherein the computer system is further configured to generate the motion transformation by determining curvilinear features within third plurality of images
15. The system of claim 11 wherein the computer system is further configured to determine a respiratory state of the patient using the third plurality of images and use the motion model and the respiratory state to determine motion adjustments reflected in the motion transformation.
16. The system of claim 15 wherein the computer system is further configured to calculate a mean brightness in one dimension using the third plurality of images to determine the respiratory state of the patient includes.
17. The system of claim 16 wherein the computer system is further configured to use a transformation configured to generate a translation vector for one or more pixels within the third plurality of images to determine the respiratory state of the patient.
18. The system of claim 11 wherein at least one of the first plurality of images, the second plurality of images, and the third plurality of images includes three-dimensional images.
19. The system of claim 11 wherein motion compensation of the interventional medical device relative to the static roadmap to produce a plurality of images that do not show patient motion presents a static display relative to the user illustrating only movement of the interventional medical device due to advancement by the user.
20. The system of claim 11 wherein motion adjustment of the static roadmap relative to the interventional medical device to produce a plurality of images that show patient motion presents a dynamic display relative to the user illustrating movement of patient and the interventional medical device due to physiological motion and advancement of the interventional medical device by the user.
21. A method of creating motion-adjusted images of a patient to guide an interventional medical procedure, the method comprising: acquiring a plurality of images of the patient having contrast enhanced vasculature;
generating a static roadmap of vasculature of the patient using the plurality of images;
generating a motion model of the patient using the plurality of images;
acquiring another plurality of images of the patient with an interventional medical device deployed within the patient;
generating motion tracking data of one of the patient or the interventional medical device using the another plurality of images;
generating a motion transformation using the motion tracking data and the motion model;
displaying the static roadmap and the another plurality of images to show the interventional medical device aligned on the static roadmap using the motion transformation and, wherein alignment of the interventional medical device on the static roadmap is based on a user selection of one of:
motion compensation of the interventional medical device relative to the static roadmap to produce a plurality of images that do not show patient motion; or
motion adjustment of the static roadmap relative to the interventional medical device to produce a plurality of images that show patient motion.
</claims>
</document>
