<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/10,A61F2/46,G06F30/27,G06T13/40,G06T19/20,G16H30/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOTION INSIGHTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BUCKLAND, AARON J.
KIM, SANG J.
PROTOPSALTIS, THEMISTOCLES S.
VIGDORCHIK, JONATHAN M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71121983
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC 3D MOTION CAPTURE FOR SURGICAL IMPLANT ORIENTATION
</title>

<abstract>
A processing device receives first continuous motion capture data representing dynamic motion of at least one of a bone or a joint of the subject user while performing a physical movement. The processing device further generates, based on the continuous motion capture data, a three dimensional (3D) visualization comprising a virtual avatar performing the physical movement and provides a visualization of a surgical implant overlaid on the virtual avatar. The processing device receives input comprising an adjustment to an orientation of the visualization of the surgical implant relative to the at least one of the bone or the joint and determines whether the orientation of the visualization of the surgical implant satisfies a condition pertaining to the subject user performing the physical movement.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method comprising:
receiving first continuous motion capture data representing dynamic motion of at least one of a bone or a joint of the subject user while performing a physical movement;
generating, based on the continuous motion capture data, a three dimensional (3D) visualization comprising a virtual avatar performing the physical movement;
providing a visualization of a surgical implant overlaid on the virtual avatar;
receiving input comprising an adjustment to an orientation of the visualization of the surgical implant relative to the at least one of the bone or the joint; and
determining whether the orientation of the visualization of the surgical implant satisfies a condition pertaining to the subject user performing the physical movement.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the input comprises receiving values corresponding to all six degrees of freedom for each individual component of the surgical implant.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the values corresponding to all six degrees of freedom comprise rotational values and translational values defined according to a known plane.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the orientation of the visualization of the surgical implant satisfies the condition pertaining to the subject user comprises determining whether the visualization of the surgical implant will come within a threshold margin of an angle of impingement while the virtual avatar is performing the physical movement.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
capturing the first continuous motion capture data using a plurality of motion capture sensors affixed to one or more body parts of the subject user while the subject user is performing the physical movement.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the first continuous motion capture data comprises one or more of positional data, rotational data, or acceleration data measured by the plurality of motion capture sensors.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
causing display of the virtual avatar performing the physical movement with the visualization of the surgical implant aligned according to the received input.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving second continuous motion capture data representing dynamic motion of the at least one of the bone or the joint of the subject user and of the surgical implant during a surgical procedure; and
verifying that an orientation of the surgical implant during the surgical procedure matches the orientation of the visualization of the surgical implant that satisfied the condition pertaining to the subject user performing the physical movement.
9. A system comprising:
a memory device storing instructions;
a processing device coupled to the memory device, the processing device to execute the instructions to:
receive first continuous motion capture data representing dynamic motion of at least one of a bone or a joint of the subject user while performing a physical movement; generate, based on the continuous motion capture data, a three dimensional (3D) visualization comprising a virtual avatar performing the physical movement;
providing a visualization of a surgical implant overlaid on the virtual avatar; receive input comprising an adjustment to an orientation of the visualization of the surgical implant relative to the at least one of the bone or the joint; and
determine whether the orientation of the visualization of the surgical implant satisfies a condition pertaining to the subject user performing the physical movement.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the input comprises values corresponding to all six degrees of freedom for each individual component of the surgical implant.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the values corresponding to all six degrees of freedom comprise rotational values and translational values defined according to a known plane.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the processing device further to:
capture the first continuous motion capture data using a plurality of motion capture sensors affixed to one or more body parts of the subject user while the subject user is performing the physical movement, wherein the first continuous motion capture data comprises one or more of positional data, rotational data, or acceleration data measured by the plurality of motion capture sensors.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the processing device further to:
cause display of the virtual avatar performing the physical movement with the visualization of the surgical implant aligned according to the received input.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the processing device further to:
receive second continuous motion capture data representing dynamic motion of the at least one of the bone or the joint of the subject user and of the surgical implant during a surgical procedure; and
verify that an orientation of the surgical implant during the surgical procedure matches the orientation of the visualization of the surgical implant that satisfied the condition pertaining to the subject user performing the physical movement.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processing device, cause the processing device to:
receive first continuous motion capture data representing dynamic motion of at least one of a bone or a joint of the subject user while performing a physical movement;
generate, based on the continuous motion capture data, a three dimensional (3D) visualization comprising a virtual avatar performing the physical movement;
provide a visualization of a surgical implant overlaid on the virtual avatar;
receive input comprising an adjustment to an orientation of the visualization of the surgical implant relative to the at least one of the bone or the joint; and
determine whether the orientation of the visualization of the surgical implant satisfies a condition pertaining to the subject user performing the physical movement.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the input comprises values corresponding to all six degrees of freedom for each individual component of the surgical implant, and wherein the values corresponding to all six degrees of freedom comprise rotational values and translational values defined according to a known plane.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein to determine whether the orientation of the visualization of the surgical implant satisfies the condition pertaining to the subject user, the processing device to determine whether the visualization of the surgical implant will come within a threshold margin of an angle of impingement while the virtual avatar is performing the physical movement.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the processing device further to:
capture the first continuous motion capture data using a plurality of motion capture sensors affixed to one or more body parts of the subject user while the subject user is performing the physical movement, wherein the first continuous motion capture data comprises one or more of positional data, rotational data, or acceleration data measured by the plurality of motion capture sensors.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the processing device further to:
cause display of the virtual avatar performing the physical movement with the visualization of the surgical implant aligned according to the received input.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the processing device further to:
receive second continuous motion capture data representing dynamic motion of the at least one of the bone or the joint of the subject user and of the surgical implant during a surgical procedure; and
verify that an orientation of the surgical implant during the surgical procedure matches the orientation of the visualization of the surgical implant that satisfied the condition pertaining to the subject user performing the physical movement.
</claims>
</document>
