<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/22,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
AL FARUQUE, MOHAMMAD
KURDAHI, FADI J.
TSENG, PETER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70731710
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TRACKING DIET AND NUTRITION USING WEARABLE BIOLOGICAL INTERNET-OF-THINGS
</title>

<abstract>
A system for tracking diet and nutrition includes an oral module configured to be affixed within a mouth of a user and including a set of salivary sensors responsive to a level of at least one nutrient. The system also includes a set of eating event sensors responsive to an eating event. The set of eating event sensors can be included in the oral module, or can be included in a body module configured to be affixed adjacent to a body part of the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for tracking diet and nutrition, comprising:
an oral module configured to be affixed within a mouth of a user and including a set of salivary sensors responsive to a level of at least one nutrient; and
a body module configured to be affixed adjacent to a body part of the user and including a set of eating event sensors responsive to an eating event.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of salivary sensors includes multiple salivary sensors responsive to levels of different nutrients.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the set of salivary sensors includes a pair of split-ring resonators and a sensing interlayer disposed between the pair of split-ring resonators.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the oral module further includes a probe antenna and a read-out circuit connected to the probe antenna, and the read-out circuit is configured to probe the set of salivary sensors through the probe antenna, and generate an output signal corresponding to the level of the at least one nutrient.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the read-out circuit includes a phase-locked loop and a transconductance block, which are configured to generate a probe signal applied to the set of salivary sensors through the probe antenna, and the read-out circuit includes an amplitude detector to detect a response signal from the set of salivary sensors through the probe antenna.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the oral module further includes a wireless communication unit and a microcontroller connected to the read-out circuit and the wireless communication unit, and the microcontroller is configured to derive information regarding the level of the at least one nutrient from the output signal of the read-out circuit.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the body module further includes a wireless communication unit and a microcontroller connected to the set of eating event sensors and the wireless communication unit of the body module, and the microcontroller of the body module is configured to derive information regarding the eating event from output signals of the set of eating event sensors.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the microcontroller of the body module is configured to direct the wireless communication unit of the body module to supply power to the oral module.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the set of eating event sensors includes multiple eating event sensors, and the microcontroller of the body module is configured to detect eating activities from output signals of the multiple eating event sensors.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the body module includes a strain gauge responsive to jaw movement, and either of, or both, a piezoelectric sensor and an acoustic sensor responsive to throat swallowing.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the microcontroller of the body module is configured to detect the eating activities by extracting features from respective ones of the output signals, fusing or merging the extracted features, and detecting the eating activities from the fused or merged features.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the microcontroller of the body module is configured to identify temporal information associated with the eating activities.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the microcontroller of the body module is configured to identify a food composition or consistency by fusing or merging the information regarding the level of the at least one nutrient and the temporal information associated with the eating activities.
14. The system of claim 7, further comprising a visual module, and wherein the visual module includes a camera configured to acquire a set of images of a food intake.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the visual module further includes a wireless communication unit and a microcontroller connected to the camera and the wireless communication unit of the visual module, and the microcontroller is configured to derive information regarding the food intake from the set of images.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the microcontroller of the visual module is configured to identify the food intake from the set of images.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the microcontroller of the visual module is configured to derive an extent of the food intake from the set of images.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the microcontroller of the visual module is configured to identify a food composition or consistency by fusing or merging the information regarding the food intake with at least one of: (a) the information regarding the level of the at least one nutrient or (b) the information regarding the eating event.
19. A system for tracking diet and nutrition, comprising:
an oral module configured to be affixed within a mouth of a user and including:
a set of salivary sensors responsive to a level of at least one nutrient; and a set of eating event sensors responsive to an eating event.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the set of salivary sensors includes multiple salivary sensors responsive to levels of different nutrients.
21. The system of claim 19, wherein each of the set of salivary sensors includes a pair of split-ring resonators and a sensing interlayer disposed between the pair of split-ring resonators.
22. The system of claim 19, wherein the oral module further includes a probe antenna and a read-out circuit connected to the probe antenna, and the read-out circuit is configured to probe the set of salivary sensors through the probe antenna, and generate an output signal corresponding to the level of the at least one nutrient.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the oral module further includes a wireless communication unit and a microcontroller connected to the set of salivary sensors, the set of eating event sensors, and the wireless communication unit, and the microcontroller is configured to derive information regarding the level of the at least one nutrient from the output signal of the read-out circuit and derive information regarding the eating event from output signals of the set of eating event sensors.
24. The system of claim 19, wherein the set of eating event sensors includes a mechanoacoustic sensor.
25. A computer-implemented method for tracking diet and nutrition of a user, comprising: detecting eating activities of the user from output signals of a set of eating event sensors affixed to the user;
identifying temporal information associated with the eating activities;
deriving information regarding a level of at least one nutrient consumed by the user during the eating activities from output signals of a set of salivary sensors affixed within a mouth of the user; and
fusing or merging the information regarding the level of the at least one nutrient and the temporal information associated with the eating activities to identify a composition or consistency of a food consumed by the user during the eating activities.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the set of eating event sensors includes multiple eating event sensors, and detecting the eating activities includes:
extracting features from respective ones of the output signals,
fusing or merging the extracted features, and
detecting the eating activities from the fused or merged features.
</claims>
</document>
