<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N3/02,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
B. G. NEGEV TECHNOLOGIES AND APPLICATIONS LTD., AT BEN-GURION UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GORDON, JONATHAN
LERNER, BOAZ
NAHON, AVIV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70975323
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTEGRATED SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PERSONALIZED STRATIFICATION AND PREDICTION OF NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASE
</title>

<abstract>
An integrated system and method for personalized stratification and prediction of neurodegenerative disease state and progression rate. Homogenous patient clusters are identified among heterogeneous patient data. Each patient cluster is characterized by specific disease factors that are used to predict disease progression state and rate for patients assigned to a particular patient cluster in accordance with his disease profile.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for predicting Neurodegenerative Disease (ND) progression rate performed on a computing device having a processor, memory, and one or more code sets stored in the memory and executed in the processor, the method comprising:
receiving feature-based representation of ND patients;
heirarchically clustering individual Functionality Measure (FM) items into group FM items,
the clustering implemented on a basis of most closely correlating individual FM item values;
grouping individual FM items into body function groups in accordance
with group FM items;
calculating group FM item progression rates for each of the body function
groups;
establishing a multi -dimensional patient reprentation based on the group
FM item progression rates;
clustering the multi -dimensional patient representation into distinct patient clusters;
identifying an optimal number of patient clusters from among patient data in accordance with data driven optimization scheme; and
predicting a progression rate for a new patient in accordance with a
patient cluster of the distinct patient clusters to which the new patient is assigned.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the progression rate is chacterized by an
individual progression rate, a group progression rate, or a total progression rate.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying at least one factor
associated with each of the plurality of patient clusters.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the identifying at least one factor is implemented through statistic-based, factor identification.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the identifying at least one factor is
implemented through classifier-based, factor identification.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the identifying at least one factor is further implented through classifier-based factor identification.
7. The method of claim 3, wherein the identifying at least one factor is
implemented through causal-based factor identification.
8. The method of claim 4, wherein the identifying at least one factor is further implemented through causal-base, factor identification.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the identifying the at least one factor is further implemented through causal-based, factor identification.
10. The method of claim 3, further comprising training a plurality of cluster-specific classifiers, each of the classifiers operative in accordance with the at least one factor associated with its respective patient cluster of the plurality of patient clusters.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of cluster-specific classifiers are implemented as ordinal classifiers.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of cluster-specific classifiers are implemented as Bayiesan network classifiers.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising assigning a new patient to one of the patient clusters in accordance with a best match between a progression rate of the new patient and a progression rate of any of the patient clusters.
14. An integrated system for predicting Neurodegenerative Disease (ND) progression rate, the sytem comprising:
an input device operative to receive feature-based patient representations; a computing device configured to:
identify an optimal number of patient clusters from among patient data in accordance with a data driven optimization scheme;
assign a new patient to one of the patient clusters in accordance with a best match between a progression rate of the new patient and a progression rate of any of the patient clusters; predict a progression rate for the new patient in accordance with the one patient cluster to which the new patient is assigned, the progression rate comprising individual prgression rate, group progression rate, or total progression rate; and an output device operative to output the progression rate.
15. The integrated system of claim 14, wherein the computing device is futher configured to calculate a predicted disease state in accordance with the predicted progression rate, the predicted disease state comprising an individual Functionality Measure (FM) item value, a group FM item value, or a total FM item value.
16. The integrated system of claim 14, wherein the computing device is further configured to train a plurality of cluster-specific classifiers, each of the classifiers operative in accordance with the at least one factor associated with its respective patient cluster of the plurality of patient clusters.
17. A method for predicting Neurodegenerative Disease (ND) state performed on a computing device having a processor, memory, and one or more code sets stored in the memory and executed in the processor, the method comprising:
receiving feature-based representation of ND patients, the feature-based
representation including static and dynamic features;
randomly assigning a plurality of patients among a plurality of patient clusters, each patient represented with static and dynamic features;
training a long short-term memory (LSTM)-based classifier for each patient cluster, each respective classifier operative to predict a disease state for a plurality of patients of an associated patient cluster; and
iteratively running a training cycle until a performance measure is achieved, the training cycle including:
testing a disease state of a plurality of patients with each of the respective classifiers,
reassigning at least one patient to a patient cluster best matching his disease state, and
retraining each of the respective classifiers using a plurality of
patients now associated with each of the patient clusters; and predicting disease state of the new patient in accordance with the cluster to which the new patient is assigned, the disease state characterized by FM value of the cluster.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the feature-based patient representation is based on an FM value and feature representations of a combinatorial combination of previously observed data points.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising, assigning a new patient to a patient cluster in accordance with a cluster-specific prediction most closely matching a general non-cluster prediction model based on all patients.
20. A system for predicting Neurodegenerative Disease (ND) state and progression rate, the sytem comprising:
an input device operative to receive feature-based representation of ND
patients, the feature-based representation including static and dynamic features;
a computing device configured to:
randomly assign a plurality of patients among a plurality of patient clusters, each patient represented with static and dynamic features, train a long short-term memory (LSTM)-based classifier for each patient cluster, each respective classifier operative to predict a disease state for a plurality of patients of an associated patient cluster, and
iteratively run a training cycle until a performance measure is achieved, the training cycle including
testing a disease state of a plurality of patients with each of the
respective classifiers,
reassigning at least one patient to a patient cluster best matching his disease state, and
retraining each of the respective classifiers using a plurality of
patients now associated with each of the patient clusters;
predict disease state of the new patient in accordance with the cluster to which the new patient is assigned, the disease state characterized by Functionality Measure (FM) value of the cluster; and
an output device operative to output the disease state.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the feature-based patient representation is based on an FM value and feature representations of a combinatorial combination of previously observed data features.
22. The system of claim 20, wherein the computing device is further configured to assign a new patient to a patient cluster in accordance with a cluster-specific prediction most closely matching a general non-cluster prediction model based on all patients.
23. The system of claim 20, wherein the computing device is further configured to predict disease state of the new patient in accordance with the cluster to which the the new patient is assigned, the disease state characterized by FM value of the cluster.
</claims>
</document>
