<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61K47/50,A61K47/64,A61K9/51,B82Y5/00,C40B30/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LIGANDAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
CONNORS, WILLIAM
FOSTER, CHRISTIAN
LIN, SHUAILIANG
PEYROT, SARA MARIE
WATSON, ANDRE RONALD
DESHPANDE, Pranali
CHIZARI, Shahab
SPENCER, Ryan
DOBBIN, Matthew
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73029398
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR DIAGNOSTICALLY-RESPONSIVE LIGAND-TARGETED DELIVERY OF THERAPEUTIC AGENTS
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are methods and compositions for the heterologous expression of a payload (e.g., DNA, RNA, protein) of interest in a target cell (e.g., cancer cell). In some cases payload delivery results in expression (e.g., by a cancer cell in vivo) of a secreted immune signal such as a cytokine, a plasma membrane-tethered affinity marker (thus resulting in an induced immune response), or a cytotoxic protein such as an apoptosis inducer (e.g., by a cancer cell in vivo). Payloads are delivered with a delivery vehicle and in some cases the delivery vehicle is a nanoparticle. In some cases a subject nanoparticle includes a targeting ligand for targeted delivery to a specific cell type/tissue type (e.g., a cancerous tissue/cell). In some embodiments, payload delivery is 'personalized' in the sense that the delivery vehicle and/or payload can be designed based on patient-specific information.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method of generating a targeting ligand that can be used to target cells, tissues, or organs of interest, the method comprising:
(g) identifying one or more cell surface targets for targeting a cell, tissue, or organ of interest;
(h) generating a list of candidate targeting ligands;
(i) producing a library of candidate delivery vehicles, wherein each candidate delivery vehicle displays one or more of the candidate targeting ligands from the list generated in step (b);
(j) contacting the identified one or more cell surface targets of step (a) with the library of candidate delivery vehicles of step (c);
(k) evaluating effectiveness of the candidate targeting ligands to target the one or more cell surface targets based on results of said contacting; and
(l) selecting one or more targeting ligands based on said evaluating.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) comprises calculating a cell, tissue, or organ selectivity index for candidate cell surface targets in order to identify the 3-50 highest expressed surface proteins of the cell, tissue, or organ of interest.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) comprises calculating a cell, tissue, or organ selectivity index for candidate cell surface targets in order to identify the 3-10 highest and uniquely expressed surface proteins of the cell, tissue, or organ of interest.
4. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein step (b) comprises evaluating crystal structures of the one or more cell surface targets to derive protein-ligand or protein-protein interaction information for the one or more cell surface targets.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the protein-ligand or protein-protein interaction information is used to identify a secondary structure scaffold and the candidate targeting ligands are designed to conform to said secondary structure scaffold.
6. The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the list of candidate targeting ligands of step (b) includes one or more ligand types selected from the group consisting of: an antibody, a scFv, a nanobody, a chemically synthesized peptide, and a nucleic acid aptamer.
7. The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the list of candidate targeting ligands of step (b) includes one or more ligands identified by phage display or random peptide library screening.
8. The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein, after step (f), at least one of the selected targeting ligands is subject to mutagenesis to produce a second library of delivery vehicles that display one or more variants of the at least one of the selected targeting ligands, and a second round of contacting, evaluating, and selecting is performed.
9. The method of any one of claims 1-7, further comprising, after step (1), generating candidate delivery vehicle formulations for a second round of screening using the one or more selected targeting ligands of step
(f).
10. The method of claim 9, wherein, after step (1), a machine learning approach is used to approximate an objective function and to generate said candidate delivery vehicle formulations for the second round of screening.
11. The method of any one of claims 1-10, wherein:
(i) said contacting of step (d) comprises contacting cells that express said one or more surface targets with the library of candidate delivery vehicles,
(ii) the candidate delivery vehicles of step (c) comprise a detectable payload, and
(iii) said evaluating of step (e) comprises measuring the detectable payload present in said cells after said contacting.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the candidate delivery vehicles of step (c) comprise a targeting ligand fused to the detectable payload.
13. The method of claim 11 or claim 12, wherein said evaluating of step (e) comprises an evaluation of physicochemical data of the candidate delivery vehicles in addition to biological data from said contacting.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein said biological data includes one or more of the following parameters: percent of cells that take-up the payload, rate of payload uptake, cell subtype specificity/selectivity, increased cell division activity, gene expression, and cell toxicity.
15. The method of any one of claims 1-14, wherein the candidate delivery vehicles of step (c) comprise a targeting ligand fused to an anchoring domain.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the anchoring domain is a charged polymer polypeptide domain that interacts with a detectable payload.
17. The method of any one of claims 1-16, wherein the candidate delivery vehicles of step (c) are nanoparticles.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the nanoparticles comprise a core comprising: an anionic polymer composition, a cationic polymer composition, a cationic polypeptide composition, and a detectable payload.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the nanoparticles comprise a core comprising cross-linked polymers.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the nanoparticles comprise a SH residue for coupling to a substrate.
21. The method of claim 17, wherein the nanoparticles comprise a solid core particle.
22. The method of any one of claims 1-16, wherein the candidate delivery vehicles of step (c) are lipidbased delivery systems that comprise a detectable payload.
23. The method of any one of claims 18-22, wherein the detectable payload is a nucleic and/or protein payload.
24. The method of any one of claims 17-23, wherein, after step (1), aggregate databases of nanoparticle formulation parameters and then· characterized performance metrics are used to predict new candidate formulation performance metrics, whereby these predictions are used to inform and/or guide modifications and refinements to candidate formulations.
25. The method of any one of claims 1-24, wherein the library of candidate delivery vehicles of step (c) includes multiple different nanoparticle formulations.
26. The method of any one of claims 1-25, wherein one or more properties selected from group consisting of: ligand density on the delivery vehicle, molecular weight of polymers, anchor length, and ratio of carrier molecules; are modulated for an additional round of screening.
27. The method of any one of claims 1-26, wherein said selecting of step (1) comprises selecting from 1-15 top-performing targeting ligands.
28. The method of any one of claims 1-27, wherein an automated system:
performs steps (a) and (b) using differential expression data provided by a user;
robotically synthesizes the library of candidate delivery vehicles; and
performs said evaluating of step (e).
29. The method of any one of claims 1-28, wherein the library of step (c) includes one or more delivery vehicles with heteromultivalent targeting ligands.
30. The method of any one of claims 1-29, wherein a recursive optimization algorithm is used to drive one or more additional rounds of screening.
31. The method of any one of claims 1-30, wherein a flow-based peptide synthesis system is used to assemble the candidate targeting ligands.
32. The method of any one of claims 1-31, wherein predictions of formulation performance metrics in a given screening iteration are algorithmically compared with analytically-derived performance metrics to refine computational methods of performance metrics prediction from formulation parameters in a subsequent screening.
33. The method of any one of claims 1-32, wherein one or more of the selected targeting ligands are coupled to synthetically-made DNA, PNA or RNA in order to create a patient-specific therapeutic response.
34. A method of generating a diagnostically-responsive delivery vehicle that can be used to target cells, tissues, or organs of an individual, the method comprising:
(d) obtaining molecular diagnostic information from the individual;
(e) identifying one or more cell surface targets based on (a); and
(f) producing a delivery vehicle comprising one or more targeting ligands that target the one or more cell surface targets.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein the molecular diagnostic information of step (a) comprises at least: nucleic acid sequencing data, microarray expression data, or proteomics expression data obtained from the individual.
36. The method of claim 34 or claim 35, wherein the delivery vehicle comprises the one or more targeting ligands fused to an anchoring domain.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the anchoring domain is a charged polymer polypeptide domain that interacts with a protein and/or nucleic acid payload.
38. The method of claim 34 or claim 35, wherein the delivery vehicle is a nanoparticle.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein the nanoparticle comprises a core that comprises: an anionic polymer composition; a cationic polymer composition; a cationic polypeptide composition; and a protein and/or nucleic acid payload.
40. The method of claim 38, wherein the nanoparticle comprises a core comprising cross-linked polymers.
41. The method of claim 38, wherein the nanoparticle comprises a SH residue for coupling to a substrate.
42. The method of claim 38, wherein the nanoparticle comprises a solid core particle.
43. The method of any one of claims 34-42, wherein the delivery vehicle is a lipid-based delivery system that comprises a protein and/or nucleic acid payload.
44. The method of any one of claims 37-43, wherein the protein and/or nucleic acid payload comprises one or more gene editing tools.
45. The method of any one of claims 34-44, wherein step (b) comprises calculating a cell, tissue, or organ selectivity index for candidate cell surface targets in order to identify the 3-50 highest expressed surface proteins of the cell, tissue, or organ of interest.
46. The method of any one of claims 34-44, wherein step (b) comprises calculating a cell, tissue, or organ selectivity index for candidate cell surface targets in order to identify the 3-10 highest and uniquely expressed surface proteins of the cell, tissue, or organ of interest.
47. The method of any one of claims 34-46, wherein said producing of step (c) comprises:
(i) generating a list of candidate targeting ligands;
(ii) producing a library of candidate delivery vehicles, wherein each candidate delivery vehicle displays one or more of the candidate targeting ligands from the list generated in step (i);
(iii) contacting the identified one or more cell surface targets of step (b) with the library of candidate delivery vehicles of step (ii);
(iv) evaluating effectiveness of the candidate targeting ligands to target the one or more cell surface targets based on results of said contacting; and
(v) selecting one or more candidate targeting ligands based on said evaluating to be the one or more targeting ligands of step (c).
48. The method of claim 47, wherein step (i) comprises evaluating crystal structures of the one or more cell surface targets to derive protein-ligand or protein-protein interaction information for the one or more cell surface targets.
49. The method of claim 48, wherein the protein-ligand or protein-protein interaction information is used to identify a secondary structure scaffold and the candidate targeting ligands are designed to conform to said secondary structure scaffold.
50. The method of any one of claims 47-49, wherein the list of candidate targeting ligands of step (i) includes one or more ligand types selected from the group consisting of: an antibody, a scFv, a nanobody, a chemically synthesized peptide, and a nucleic acid aptamer.
51. The method of any one of claims 47-49, wherein the list of candidate targeting ligands of step (i) includes one or more ligands identified by phage display screening.
52. The method of any one of claims 47-51, wherein, after step (v), at least one of the selected targeting ligands is subject to mutagenesis to produce a second library of delivery vehicles that display one or more variants of the at least one of the selected targeting ligands, and a second round of contacting, evaluating, and selecting is performed.
53. The method of any one of claims 47-51, further comprising, after step (v), generating candidate delivery vehicle formulations for a second round of screening using the one or more selected targeting ligands of step (v).
54. The method of claim 53, wherein, after step (v), a machine learning approach is used to approximate an objective function and to generate said candidate delivery vehicle formulations for the second round of screening.
55. The method of any one of claims 47-54, wherein:
said contacting of step (iii) comprises contacting cells that express said one or more surface targets with the library of candidate delivery vehicles,
the candidate delivery vehicles of step (ii) comprise a detectable payload, and
said evaluating of step (iv) comprises measuring the detectable payload present in said cells after said contacting.
56. The method of claim 55, wherein the candidate delivery vehicles of step (ii) comprise a targeting ligand fused to the detectable payload.
57. The method of claim 55 or claim 56, wherein said evaluating of step (iv) comprises an evaluation of physicochemical data of the candidate delivery vehicles in addition to biological data from said contacting.
58. The method of claim 57, wherein said biological data includes one or more of the following parameters: percent of cells that take-up the payload, rate of payload uptake, cell subtype specificity/selectivity, increased cell division activity, gene expression, and cell toxicity.
59. The method of any one of claims 47-58, wherein the candidate delivery vehicles of step (ii) comprise a targeting ligand fused to an anchoring domain.
60. The method of claim 59, wherein the anchoring domain is a charged polymer polypeptide domain that interacts with a detectable payload.
61. The method of any one of claims 47-60, wherein the candidate delivery vehicles of step (ii) are nanoparticles.
62. The method of claim 61, wherein the nanoparticles comprise a core comprising: an anionic polymer composition, a cationic polymer composition, a cationic polypeptide composition, and a detectable payload.
63. The method of claim 62, wherein the detectable payload is a nucleic and/or protein payload.
64. The method of any one of claims 61-63, wherein, after step (v), aggrega te databases of nanoparticle formulation parameters and their characterized performance metrics are used to predict new candidate formulation performance metrics, whereby these predictions are used to inform and/or guide modifications and refinements to candidate formulations.
65. The method of any one of claims 47-64, wherein the library of candidate delivery vehicles of step (ii) includes multiple different nanoparticle formulations.
66. The method of any one of claims 47-65, wherein one or more properties selected from group consisting of: ligand density on the delivery vehicle, molecular weight of polymers, anchor length, and ratio of carrier molecules; are modulated for an additional round of screening.
67. The method of any one of claims 47-66, wherein said selecting of step (v) comprises selecting from 34- 15 top-performing targeting ligands.
68. The method of any one of claims 47-67, wherein an automated system:
performs step (b) using the molecular diagnostic information of step (a);
robotically synthesizes the library of candidate delivery vehicles; and
performs said evaluating of step (iv).
69. The method of any one of claims 47-68, wherein the library of step (ii) includes one or more delivery vehicles with heteromultivalent targeting ligands.
70. The method of any one of claims 47-69, wherein a recursive optimization algorithm is used to drive one or more additional rounds of screening.
71. The method of any one of claims 47-70, wherein a flow-based peptide synthesis systemis used to assemble the candidate targeting ligands .
72. The method of any one of claims 47-71, wherein predictions of formulation performance metrics in a given screening iteration are algorithmically compared with analytically-derived performance metrics to refine computational methods of performance metrics prediction from formulation parameters in a subsequent screening.
73. The method of any one of claims 34-72, wherein the method comprises administering the delivery vehicle produced in step (c) to the individual, wherein the individual has a disorder or disease and the delivery vehicle comprises a protein and/or nucleic acid payload for treating the disorder or disease.
74. A method of treating an individual who has a disease, the method comprising:
administering a deliver} vehicle to an individual who has a disease, wherein the deliver}' vehicle delivers a payload composition to a diseased cell of the individual, wherein the payload composition comprises one or both of:
(2) an affinity marker or a nucleic acid encoding the affinity marker, wherein the affinity marker is a surface protein that is thereby displayed and/or expressed on the surface of the diseased ceil; and (2) a secreted protein or a nucleic acid encoding the secreted protein, wherein the secreted protein activates the individual's immune system.
75. The method of claim 74, wherein the individual has cancer and the diseased cell is a cancer cell.
76. The method of claim 74, wherein the individual has a solid tumor and the diseased cell is a cell of the solid tumor.
77. The method of any one of claims 74-76, wherein the affinity marker is a chimeric fusion protein that comprises a membrane anchor fused to an extracellular protein domain that is recognized by and activates the individual's immune system.
78. The method of any one of claims 74-76, wherein the affinity marker is a heterologous protein that the diseased cell did not express prior to said administering.
79. The method of any one of claims 74-76, wherein the affinity marker is a protein that the diseased cell expresses prior to said administering, hut expresses at a higher level after said administering.
80. The method of any one of claims 74-79, wherein the payload composition comprises donor DNA, and a nucleotide sequence of the donor DNA integrates into the diseased cell's genome.
81. The method of any one of claims 74-79, wherein the payload composition comprises a double stranded DNA gene expression cassete that does not integrate into the diseased cell's genome, wherein the double stranded DN A gene expression cassette comprises a nucleotide sequence of interest operably linked to a promoter.
82. The method of claim 81, wherein the promoter is selected by evaluating gene expression of diseased cells of the individual.
83. The method of any one of claims 74-79, wherein the payload composition comprises an mRNA.
84. The method of any one of claims 74-83, wherein the deliver}' vehicle is non-viral.
85. The method of any one of claims 74-83, wherein the delivery vehicle is a nanoparticle.
86. The method of claim 85, wherein the nanoparticle comprises a core comprising an anionic polymer composition, a cationic polymer composition, and a cationic polypeptide composition.
87. The method of claim 86, wherein said anionic polymer composition comprises an anionic polymer selected from poly(glutamic acid) and poly(aspartic acid).
88. The method of claim 86 or claim 87, wherein said cationic polymer composition comprises a cationic polymer selected from poly(arginine), poly(lysine), poly(histidine), poly(omithine), and poly(citrulline).
89. The method of any one of claims 86-88, wherein nanoparticle further comprises a sheddable layer encapsulating the core.
90. The method of claim 89, wherein the sheddable layer is an anionic coat or a cationic coat.
91. The method of claim 89 or claim 90, wherein the sheddable layer comprises one or more components selected from: silica, a peptoid, a poly cysteine, calcium, calcium oxide, hydroxyapatite, calcium phosphate, calcium sulfate, manganese, manganese oxide, manganese phosphate, manganese sulfate, magnesium, magnesium oxide, magnesium phosphate, magnesium sulfate, iron, iron oxide, iron phosphate, iron sulfate, and an anionic polymer.
92. The method of any one of claims 89-91, wherein the nanoparticle further comprises a surface coat surrounding the sheddable layer.
93. The method of claim 92, wherein the surface coat comprises a cationic or anionic anchoring domain that interacts electrostatically with the sheddable layer.
94. The method of claim 92 or claim 93, wherein the surface coat comprises one or more targeting ligands.
95. The method of claim 94, wherein at least one of said one or more targeting ligands targets a surface protein of the diseased cel, wherein the surface protein was identified by evaluating diseased cels of the individual.
96. The method of any one of claims 92-95, wherein the surface coat comprises me or more stealth motifs.
97. The method of claim 96, wherein said one or more stealth motifs comprise one or more components selected from: hyaluronan, polyethylene glycol, a polysialic acid functionalized peptide, a sialic acid functionalized peptide, a gtycopeptide, a glycan-modified polymer backbone, and a neuraminic acid functionalized peptide.
98. The method of any one of claims 74-97, wherein the payload composition comprises the affinity marker or tire nucleic acid encoding the affinity marker.
99. The method of claim 98, wherein the affinity' marker is bound by an endogenous T cel receptor, which elicits a cytotoxic response.
100. The method of claim 98, wherein the affinity marker engages a direct signaling cascade.
101. The method of claim 98, wherein the method further comprises introducing an engineered T-cel into the individual, wherein the engineered T-cel expresses a receptor that binds to the affinity marker.
102 The method of claim 101, wherein the T-ceU is a CART-celL
103. The method of claim 98, wherein the method further comprises introducing an engineered natural Idler cel (NK cell) into the individual, wherein the engineered NK cel expresses a receptor that binds to the affinity marker.
104. The method of claim 98, wherein the method further comprises introducing an engineered immune cell into tire individual, wherein the engineered immune cell expresses a receptor that binds to the affinity marker.
105. The method of any are of claims 74-104, wherein the payload composition comprises the secreted protein or the nucleic acid encoding the secreted protein
106. The method of claim 105, wherein the secreted protein is a cytokine and is selected from: IL-2, IL-7, IL-12, IL-15, IL-21, and IFN-gamma.
107. The method of ary one of claims 74-106, wherein the delivery vehicle is a targeting ligand conjugated to a charged polymer domain, wherein tire targeting ligand provides for targeted binding to a cell surface protein, and wherein the charged polymer domain is condensed with and/or is interacting electrostatically with the payload composition.
108. The method of claim 107, wherein the delivery vehicle further comprises an anionic polymer interacting with the payload composition and the charged polymer domain.
109. The method of any one of claims 74-106, wherein the delivery vehicle is a targeting ligand directly conjugated to a substrate
110. The method of claim 109, wherein the substrate is selected from: a solid core, an interlayer, an end of a PEG group, a linear polymer, and a branched polymer.
</claims>
</document>
