<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/355,A63F13/56,A63F13/67,A63F13/798
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TAYLOR, MICHAEL
SONY INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
TAYLOR, MICHAEL
BLACK; GLEN N.
RICO, JAVIER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69845582
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR TRAINING AN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE MODEL FOR COMPETITION MATCHES
</title>

<abstract>
A method for training a character for a game is described. The method includes facilitating a display of one or more scenes of the game. The one or more scenes include the character and virtual objects. The method further includes receiving input data for controlling the character by a user to interact with the virtual objects and analyzing the input data to identify interaction patterns for the character in the one or more scenes. The interaction patterns define inputs to train an artificial intelligence (AI) model associated with a user account of the user. The method includes enabling the character to interact with a new scene based on the AI model. The method includes tracking the interaction with the new scene by the character to perform additional training of the AI model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for training a character for a game, comprising:
facilitating a display of one or more scenes of the game, wherein the one or more scenes include the character and virtual objects;
receiving input data for controlling the character by a user to interact with the virtual objects;
analyzing the input data to identify interaction patterns for the character in the one or more scenes, wherein the interaction patterns define inputs to train an artificial intelligence (AI) model associated with a user account of the user;
enabling the character to interact with a new scene using the AI model; and
tracking the interaction with the new scene by the character to perform additional training of the AI model.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the additional training of the AI model is by interaction caused by the character when automatically controlled using decisions made using the AI model.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the decisions made using the AI model do not include control from the user.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the input data is received via a computer network, wherein said analyzing the input data includes:
identifying features associated with the input data, wherein the features are associated with the character and the virtual objects in the one or more scenes;
classifying the features to output classifiers, wherein each of the classifiers is associated with a corresponding function performed by the character;
providing the classifiers as inputs to train the AI model.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
requesting permission from another user account to access another AI model;
requesting additional interaction patterns used to train the other AI model;
applying the additional interaction patterns to train the AI model.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
analyzing outputs achieved by applying the interactive patterns to the AI model; analyzing additional outputs by applying other interactive patterns to the AI model; determining whether the additional outputs exceed the outputs;
training the AI model based on the other interactive patterns in response to determining that the additional outputs exceed the outputs; and
determining to apply the AI model that is trained based on the other interactive patterns for additional instances of the one or more virtual scenes.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
providing the new scene to the character to enable the AI model to train from the new scene, wherein the new scene includes a virtual object that is not present in the one or more scenes or excludes one or more of the virtual objects present in the one or more scenes or a combination thereof;
receiving reaction data of the character controlled by the artificial intelligence model when the character reacts to the new scene;
applying by the AI model of the reaction data to perform the additional training, wherein the additional training is performed by identifying additional interaction patterns associated with the reaction data.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
assigning a skill level to the AI model before the training, a skill level to the AI model after the training, a skill level to the AI model before the additional training, and a skill level to the AI model after the additional training;
requesting a skill level of another AI model;
applying one of the skill levels of the AI model corresponding to the skill level of the other AI model in a competition between the AI model and the other AI model.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the character is not controlled by the user and is controlled by the AI model during the competition and the other character is controlled by the other AI model during the competition.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
determining that a request is received from another user to play the game with the user; identifying that the user is logged out of the user account in response to receiving the request; generating data for displaying that instead of the user the AI model is available to play the game with the other user.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving a recording of gesture data of the user and voice data of the user during the display of the one or more scenes of the game;
integrating the gesture data and the voice data with the inputs used to train the AI model to enable the character to apply gestures and voices.
12. A server for training a character for a game, comprising:
a processor configured to facilitate a display of one or more scenes of the game, wherein the one or more scenes include the character and virtual objects;
wherein the processor is configured to receive input data for controlling the character by a user to interact with the virtual objects;
wherein the processor is configured to analyze the input data to identify interaction patterns of the character in the one or more scenes, wherein the interaction patterns define inputs to train an artificial intelligence (AI) model associated with a user account of the user;
wherein the processor is configured to enable the character to interact with a new scene based on the AI model, and
wherein the processor is configured to track the interaction with the new scene by the character to perform additional training of the AI model; and
a memory device coupled to the processor, wherein the memory device is configured to store the AI model.
13. The server of claim 12, wherein to the enable character to interact with the new scene includes, the processor is configured to apply the AI model to the new scene.
14. The server of claim 12, wherein the input data is received via a computer network, wherein to analyze the input data, the processor is configured to:
identify features associated with the input data, wherein the features are associated with the character and the virtual objects in the one or more scenes;
classify the features to output classifiers, wherein each of the classifiers is associated with a corresponding function performed by the character;
provide the classifiers as inputs to train the AI model.
15. The server of claim 12, wherein the processor is configured to:
request permission from another user account to access another AI model;
request additional interaction patterns used to train the other AI model;
apply the additional interaction patterns to train the AI model.
16. The server of claim 12, wherein the processor is configured to:
analyze outputs achieved by applying the interactive patterns to the AI model;
analyze additional outputs by applying other interactive patterns to the AI model;
determine whether the additional outputs exceed the outputs;
train the AI model based on the other interactive patterns in response to determining that the additional outputs exceed the outputs; and
determine to apply the AI model that is trained based on the other interactive patterns for additional instances of the one or more virtual scenes.
17. The server of claim 12, wherein the processor is configured to:
provide the new scene to the character to enable the AI model to train from the new scene, wherein the new scene includes a virtual object that is not present in the one or more scenes or excludes one or more of the virtual objects present in the one or more scenes or a combination thereof;
receive reaction data of the character controlled by the artificial intelligence model when the character reacts to the new scene;
provide the reaction data to the AI model to perform the additional training, wherein the additional training is performed by identifying additional interaction patterns associated with the reaction data.
18. The server of claim 12, wherein the processor is configured to:
assign a skill level to the AI model before the training, a skill level to the AI model after the training, a skill level to the AI model before the additional training, and a skill level to the AI model after the additional training;
detect a skill level of another AI model;
apply one of the skill levels of the AI model corresponding to the skill level of the other AI model in a competition between the AI model and the other AI model.
19. The server of claim 18, wherein the character is not controlled by the user and is controlled by the AI model during the competition and the other character is controlled by the other AI model during the competition.
20. The server of claim 12, wherein the processor is configured to:
determine that a request is received from another user to play the game with the user; detect that the user is logged out of the user account in response to receiving the request; generate data for displaying that instead of the user the AI model is available to play the game with the other user.
21. The server of claim 12, wherein the processor is configured to:
receive a recording of gesture data of the user and voice data of the user during the display of the one or more scenes of the game;
integrate the gesture data and the voice data with the inputs used to train the AI model to enable the character to apply gestures and voices.
22. A computer readable medium containing program instructions, wherein execution of the program instructions by one or more processors of a computer system causes the one or more processors to carry out a plurality of operations of:
facilitating a display of one or more scenes of the game, wherein the one or more scenes include the character and virtual objects;
receiving input data for controlling the character by a user to interact with the virtual objects;
analyzing the input data to identify interaction patterns for the character in the one or more scenes, wherein the interaction patterns define inputs to train an artificial intelligence (AI) model associated with a user account of the user;
enabling the character to interact with a new scene based on the AI model; and tracking the interaction with the new scene by the character to perform additional training of the AI model.
23. The computer readable medium of claim 22, wherein the operation of enabling the character to interact with the new scene includes applying the AI model to the new scene.
</claims>
</document>
