<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/20,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERILY LIFE SCIENCES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLEN, MICHAEL
AZAR, DIMITRI
SINHA, SUPRIYO
WHITEHURST, TODD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70285860
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGING DEVICE FOR IDENTIFYING A LIQUID WITHIN A DISPENSER
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for determining the identity of a liquid within a liquid dispenser are provided. A device includes a holder having an opening that is configured to retain the liquid dispenser. A surface of the liquid dispenser is configured to affix a label identifying a liquid within the liquid dispenser. A plurality of lenses are mounted on the holder. Each lens has a respective field of view that includes a respective portion of the surface of the liquid dispenser. In addition, the device includes a plurality of fiber bundles. Each fiber bundle includes an input that is configured to receive a respective signal from a respective one of the plurality of lenses. Further, the device includes an imaging sensor that is configured to receive the respective signals from the plurality of fiber bundles and to form a plurality of images of the surface of the liquid dispenser.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising:
a holder having an opening that is configured to retain a liquid dispenser, wherein a surface of the liquid dispenser is configured to affix a label identifying a liquid within the liquid dispenser;
a plurality of lenses mounted on the holder, wherein each lens of the plurality of lenses has a respective field of view that includes a respective portion of the surface of the liquid dispenser;
a plurality of fiber bundles, wherein each fiber bundle of the plurality of fiber bundles comprises an input that is configured to receive a respective signal from a respective one of the plurality of lenses; and
an imaging sensor that is configured to receive the respective signals from the plurality of fiber bundles and to form a plurality of images of the surface of the liquid dispenser as a function of the respective signals.
2. The device according to claim 1, wherein:
the plurality of lenses comprises a first lens and a second lens, the first lens is oriented at a first angle with respect to an axis that is parallel to the surface of the liquid dispenser,
the second lens is oriented at a second angle with respect to the axis, and the second angle is different from the first angle.
3. The device according to claim 1, wherein:
the plurality of lenses comprises a first lens and a second lens, the first lens has a first demagnification,
the second lens has a second demagnification, and
the second demagnification is different from the first demagnification.
4. The device according to claim 1, wherein each lens of the plurality of lenses is oriented at a same angle with respect to an axis that is parallel to the surface of the liquid dispenser.
5. The device according to claim 1, wherein a respective output of each fiber bundle of the plurality of fiber bundles is butt-coupled to the imaging sensor.
6. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a relay lens that is configured to relay the respective signals from respective outputs of the plurality of fiber bundles to the imaging sensor.
7. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a transmitter that is configured to output the plurality of images of the surface of the liquid dispenser.
8. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a light source that is configured to illuminate the surface of the liquid dispenser.
9. The device according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of lenses are configured such that a combination of the respective fields of view of the plurality of lenses covers an entire circumference of the surface of the liquid dispenser.
10. A system comprising:
a holder having an opening that is configured to retain a liquid dispenser, wherein a surface of the liquid dispenser is configured to affix a label identifying a liquid within the liquid dispenser;
a plurality of lenses mounted on the holder, wherein each lens of the plurality of lenses has a respective field of view that includes a respective portion of the surface of the liquid dispenser;
a plurality of fiber bundles, wherein each fiber bundle of the plurality of fiber bundles comprises an input that is configured to receive a respective signal from a respective one of the plurality of lenses;
an imaging sensor that is configured to receive the respective signals from the plurality of fiber bundles and to form a plurality of images of the surface of the liquid dispenser as a function of the respective signals;
one or more data processors; and
a non-transitory computer readable storage medium containing instructions that when executed on the one or more data processors, cause the one or more data processors to perform actions including:
receiving the plurality of images of the surface of the liquid dispenser from the imaging sensor; and using a trained artificial neural network to determine an identity of the liquid within the liquid dispenser as a function of the plurality of images of the surface of the liquid dispenser.
11. The system according to claim 10, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more data processors to perform actions including combining the plurality of images of the surface of the liquid dispenser into a single image that includes the label affixed on the surface of the liquid dispenser, wherein the one or more data processors determine the identity of the liquid within the liquid dispenser as a function of the single image.
12. The system according to claim 11, wherein the one or more data processors determine the identity of the liquid within the liquid dispenser as a function of the label within the single image.
13. The system according to claim 10, wherein:
the plurality of lenses comprises a first lens and a second lens, the first lens is oriented at a first angle with respect to an axis that is parallel to the surface of the liquid dispenser,
the second lens is oriented at a second angle with respect to the axis, and the second angle is different from the first angle.
14. The system according to claim 10, wherein:
the plurality of lenses comprises a first lens and a second lens, the first lens has a first demagnification,
the second lens has a second demagnification, and
the second demagnification is different from the first demagnification.
15. The system according to claim 10, wherein each lens of the plurality of lenses is oriented at a same angle with respect to an axis that is parallel to the surface of the liquid dispenser.
16. The system according to claim 10, wherein a respective output of each fiber bundle of the plurality of fiber bundles is butt-coupled to the imaging sensor.
17. The system according to claim 10, further comprising a relay lens that is configured to relay the respective signals from respective outputs of the plurality of fiber bundles to the imaging sensor.
18. The system according to claim 10, further comprising a transmitter that is configured to output the plurality of images of the surface of the liquid dispenser.
19. The system according to claim 10, further comprising a light source that is configured to illuminate the surface of the liquid dispenser.
20. The system according to claim 10, wherein the plurality of lenses are configured such that a combination of the respective fields of view of the plurality of lenses covers an entire circumference of the surface of the liquid dispenser.
</claims>
</document>
