<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M1/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RESMED
RESMED CORP
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAYDON ERIKA LYNN
DE SOUZA SAKEENA
KIRKPATRICK RYAN
BEHRENS LORI LYNN
SHARMA ANIKET
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70978649
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SMART CONNECTED BREAST PUMP
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for increasing the efficiency of a breast pump device is disclosed. The system includes a breast pump device with a vacuum pump to provide suction force to a flange attached to the breast of a user. The device includes a controller that controls the pump with different modes of pumping operation including a prime mode and a pump mode. The pump device may include a pressure sensor that provides data to a transceiver sending data to an external device. The flange unit may include a substantially circular rim with a layer configured to contact the skin of a user to convey the suction force. The system may include milk containers that include a machine scannable external identification tag.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A breast pump device comprising:
a vacuum pump to provide suction force to a flange, the flange configured to attach to a chest area of a user around a breast of the user, the vacuum pump having different settings to control the suction force during a pumping operation; and
a controller is configured to control the pump, the controller operable to provide different modes of pumping operation, the modes comprising an initial prime mode to provide fluctuating negative pressure within the flange to simulate feeding, and a pump mode providing a more constant negative pressure.
2. The breast pump device of claim 1, further comprising a transceiver in communication with an external device, the transceiver configured to:
transmit data associated with the pumping operation; and
receive control commands for the controller.
3. The breast pump device of any one of claims 1-2, wherein the external device is operative to learn optimal settings for the user based on transmitted data specific to the user.
4. The breast pump device of claim 3, wherein the transmitted data include at least one of: the duration of the prime mode, how much milk is produced, and the pressure within the flange during the pumping operation.
5. The breast pump device of any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the optimal settings are provided in the control commands by the external device.
6. The breast pump device of any one of claims 2 to 5, wherein the optimal setting is a time for pumping operation.
7. The breast pump device of any one of claims 2 to 6, wherein the external device is a mobile device associated with the user.
8. The breast pump device of claim 7, wherein the mobile device is in communication with an application server.
9. The breast pump device of any one of claims 3 to 8, wherein the external device is a networked server.
10. The breast pump device of any one of claims 1 to 9, further comprising a pressure sensor coupled to the flange, the pressure sensor configured to provide pressure data associated with the pumping operation.
11. A breast pump device comprising: a vacuum pump to provide suction force to a flange, the flange configured to attach to a chest area of a user around a breast of the user, the vacuum pump having different settings to control pressure of the suction force;
a pressure sensor coupled to the flange, the pressure sensor configured to generate pressure data representative of air pressure in the flange;
a controller configured to control the pump; and
a transceiver in communication with an external device, the transceiver configured to transmit pressure data received by the controller from the pressure sensor.
12. The breast pump device of claim 11, wherein the pressure sensor is a gauge type transducer.
13 The breast pump device of any one of claims 11 to 12, wherein the controller is further configured to determine the duration of a pumping session, and send the duration data to the transceiver.
14. The breast pump device of claim 13, wherein the external device is operable to determine an estimate of milk production based on the received pressure and duration data.
15. The breast pump device of any one of claims 11 to 14, wherein the external device is operable to determine the pressure required to be applied by the pump to draw milk.
16. The breast pump device of any one of claims 11 to 15, wherein the pressure data is used to determine an air leak based on a decrease in sensed negative pressure.
17. A flange unit for attachment to a breast pump, the flange unit comprising:
a connector to a hose providing suction force from the breast pump; and
a flange having a coupling to the connector and an opposite substantially circular rim, wherein the substantially circular rim comprises a layer configured to contact the skin of a user to convey the suction force to the skin.
18. The flange unit of claim 17, wherein the layer has a microtexture to facilitate comfort and sealing contact with the skin.
19. The flange unit of any one of claims 17-18, wherein the layer comprises a foam material to distribute the load of the flange on the skin.
20. The flange unit of any one of claims 17-19, wherein the layer includes a complex geometry to improve the seal of the flange with the skin.
21. The flange unit of any one of claims 17-20, wherein the shape of the flange is custom sized for the user based on measurements of physical features of the user.
22. A support system for operation of a breast pump device, the breast pump device including a vacuum pump to provide suction force to a flange, the flange configured to attach to chest area of a user around a breast of the user, a controller configured to control the pump according to different modes of pumping operation, the modes comprising an initial prime mode to provide fluctuating negative pressure within the flange to simulate feeding, and a pump mode providing a more constant negative pressure; and a transceiver, the system comprising: a network interface for receiving data associated with the pumping operation from the transceiver;
a database coupled to the network interface to store the data received from the transceiver, the database including data associated with the user; and
a processor operable to collect the data received from the transceiver, process the data, and provide the processed data to the database.
23 The support system of claim 22, wherein the breast pump device is one of a plurality of breast pump devices supported by the support system.
24. The support system of claim 23, wherein the processor is operable to determine initial settings for the pump device based on analysis of data from the plurality of breast pump devices.
25. The support system of claim 23, wherein the processor is operable to determine optimal scheduling for pumping based on analysis of data from the plurality of breast pump devices.
26. The support system of any one of claims 22 to 25, wherein the processor is operable to determine a time for replacement of one of the group of components of the pump device consisting of: the vacuum pump, and the flange.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the processor is operable to determine the time for replacement based on analysis of data from users of the plurality of breast pump devices with similar characteristics to the user.
28. The system of any one of claims 22 to 27, wherein the processor is operable to communicate to a computing device associated with the user a selected assistance medium, the assistance medium selected based on analysis of the received data.
29. A milk container operable for connection to a breast pump, the milk container comprising:
a coupling operable to be connected to a breast pump device;
an external identification tag encoding identification information associated with the container, the external identification tag being machine-scannable; and
a containment compartment for storing milk.
30. The milk container of claim 29, wherein the containment compartment is transparent.
31. The milk container of claim 30, wherein the compartment includes a volume scale configured to show the amount of milk stored in the container.
32. The milk container of any one of claims 29-31, further comprising a visual temperature indicator on the containment compartment configured to show the temperature of the stored milk
33. The milk container of any one of claims 29-32, wherein the container is a bag.
34. The milk container of any one of claims 29-33, wherein the container is a bottle.
35. The milk container of any one of claims 29-34, wherein the identification tag is a bar code.
36. The milk container of any one of claims 29-34, wherein the identification tag is a QR code
37. The milk container of any one of claims 29-36, wherein the identification tag is printed on the container.
38. The milk container of any one of claims 29-37, further comprising a human-readable identification number associated with the identification information.
</claims>
</document>
