<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A41C3/00,A41C3/12,A41D31/18,A41F1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NIKE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHNEIDER, SUMMER L.
REYNOLDS, Nikki
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73549444
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADAPTIVE SUPPORT APPAREL SYSTEMS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and apparatus related to adaptive support garments including adaptive support structures, lacing systems, and an adaptive engine are discussed. In an example, an adaptive support garment includes a support structure, a plurality of lace guides, a lace cable, and an adaptive engine. The support structure is configured to wrap around a portion of anatomy of a wearer and apply a compression on the portion of anatomy. The plurality of lace guides are disposed on the support structure. The lace cable extends through the lace guides to form a lacing pattern over a lacing region of the support structure. The adaptive engine is coupled to the support structure and engages with the lace cable. The adaptive engine is also configured to increase or decrease tension on the lace cable to increase or decrease compression of the support structure on the portion of anatomy, respectively.
</abstract>

<claims>
The claimed invention includes;
1. An adaptive support garment comprising:
a support structure configured to wrap around a portion of anatomy of a wearer and apply a compression on the portion of anatomy;
a plurality of lace guides disposed on the support structure;
a lace cable, extending through the lace guides to form a lacing pattern over a lacing region of the support structure; and
an adaptive engine, coupled to the support structure and engaged with the lace cable, , wherein the adaptive engine is configured to increase or decrease tension on the lace cable to increase or decrease compression of the support structure on the portion of anatomy, respectively.
2. The adaptive support garment of claim 1, wherein the adaptive engine is disposed in the center of the support structure.
3. The adaptive support garment of claim 2, wherein the lacing pattern extends above and below the adaptive engine along a longitudinal axis of the support structure.
4. The adaptive support garment of claim 1, wherein the lace cable extends from opposing sides of the adaptive engine.
5. The adaptive support garment of claim 4, wherein the adaptive engine includes a spool configured to take up the lace cable, wherein the lace cable is configured to exit the spool on opposing sides of the spool.
6. The adaptive support garment of claim 1 , wherein the support structure comprises a first half and a second half and a zipper extending along the longitudinal axis of the support structure, the zipper configured to join the first half to the second half to form the tubular support structure.
7. The adaptive support garment of claim 6, wherein the support structure comprises a first elastic portion extending between a first side of the lacing region and the zipper and a second elastic portion extending between a second side of the lacing region and the zipper.
8. The adaptive support garment of claim 7, wherein the first and second elastic portions are formed from a mesh.
9. The adaptive support garment of claim 1, wherein the lacing pattern is a split helix pattern.
10. The adaptive support garment of claim 9, wherein the split helix pattern is formed along a medial section of an inferior portion of the support structure and along a lateral section of a superior portion of the support structure.
11. An adaptive support garment comprising:
a support structure configured to wrap around a portion of anatomy of a wearer and provide compression on the portion of anatomy;
a plurality of lace guides disposed on the support structure;
a lace cable, extending through the lace guides to form a lacing pattern over a lacing region of the support structure and around a portion of a perimeter of the portion of the support structure; and
an adaptive engine coupled to the support structure and engaged with the lace cable, wherein the adaptive engine is configured to increase or decrease tension on the lace cable to increase or decrease compression of the support structure, respectively.
12. The adaptive support garment of claim 11, wherein the lacing pattern includes routing the lace cable completely around the perimeter of the lacing region of the support structure.
13. The adaptive support garment of claim 12, wherein the lace guides include a plurality of tubular lace guides positioned along the perimeter and wherein the lace cable extends through the tubular lace guides.
14. The adaptive support garment of claim 1 1 , wherein the adaptive engine is positioned within the lacing region of the support structure.
15. The adaptive support garment of claim 14, wherein the adaptive engine is positioned over a center point of the lacing region of the support structure.
16. The adaptive support garment of claim 11, wherein the lace cable includes a first lace cable and a separate second lace cable.
17. The adaptive support garment of claim 16, wherein the first lace cable forms a first lacing zone extending proximally from a proximal side of the adaptive engine, and the second lace cable forms a second lacing zone extending distally from a distal side of the adaptive engine.
18. The adaptive support garment of claim 17, wherein the second lace cable is routed from a distal end of the adaptive support garment along the perimeter of the support structure to a proximal end.
19. An adaptive support garment comprising:
a support structure configured to wrap around a portion of anatomy of a wearer to provide compression to the portion of the anatomy;
a plurality of lace guides disposed on the support structure; a lace cable, extending through the lace guides to form a lacing pattern over a lacing region of the support structure;
an adaptive engine coupled to the support structure and engaged with the lace cable, wherein the adaptive engine is configured to increase or decrease tension on the lace cable to increase or decrease compression of the support structure, respectively; and
an airbag, positioned between the lacing region and a wearer-facing surface of the adaptive support garment, the airbag configured to distribute force from the lace cable along the airbag.
20. The adaptive support garment of claim 19, wherein the airbag forms a notch sized to receive, at least in part, the adaptive support engine and wherein the adaptive support engine is disposed in the notch.
21. The adaptive support garment of claim 19, wherein the support structure comprises a first layer and a second layer forming a cavity therebetween, wherein the airbag is positioned within the cavity.
22. The adaptive support garment of claim 21 , further comprising a stiffening element extending longitudinally along a longitudinal axis of the support structure.
23. The adaptive support garment of claim 19, further comprising a pressure sensor configured to detect a pressure within the airbag, the pressure sensor operatively coupled to the adaptive engine, wherein the adaptive engine is configured to increase or decrease tension on the lace based in part on the pressure within the airbag detected by the pressure sensor.
24. The adaptive support garment of claim 23, wherein the pressure sensor is positioned within the airbag.
</claims>
</document>
