<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PIE MEDICAL IMAGING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABEN, JEAN-PAUL
KOEHN, DENNIS
MA, HUA
VAN WALSUM, THEO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69165376
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR DYNAMIC CORONARY ROADMAPPING
</title>

<abstract>
Methods are provided for dynamically visualizing information in image data of an object of interest of a patient, which include an offline phase and an online phase. In the offline phase, first image data of the object of interest acquired with a contrast agent is obtained with an interventional device is present in the first image data. The first image data is used to generate a plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest. A plurality of reference locations of the device in the first image data is determined, wherein the plurality of reference locations correspond to the plurality of roadmaps. In the online phase, live image data of the object of interest acquired without a contrast agent is obtained with the device present in the live image data, and a roadmap is selected from the plurality of roadmaps. A location of the device in the live image data is determined. The reference location of the device corresponding to the selected roadmap and the location of the device in the live image data is used to transform the selected roadmap to generate a dynamic roadmap of the object of interest. A visual representation of the dynamic roadmap is overlaid on the live image data for display. In embodiments, the first image data of the offline phase covers different of phases of the cardiac cycle of the patient, and the plurality of roadmaps generated in the offline phase covers the different phases of the patient's cardiac cycle. Related systems and program storage devices are also described and claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for dynamically visualizing information from first image data of an object of interest along with second image data of the object of interest, the method comprising: i) using the first image data to generate a plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest; ii) determining a plurality of reference locations of a device, such as a guiding catheter, a guide wire or other intraluminal device or instrument, in the first image data, wherein the plurality of reference locations correspond to the plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest of i); iii) selecting one roadmap from the plurality of roadmaps; iv) determining a location of the device in the second image data; v) using the reference location of the device corresponding to the one roadmap selected in iii) and the location of the device determined in iv) to transform the one roadmap selected in iii) to generate a dynamic roadmap of the object of interest; and vi) overlaying a visual representation of the dynamic roadmap of the object of interest as generated in v) on the second image data for display.
2. A method according to claim 1 , wherein: the object of interest comprises the heart, a part of the coronary tree, blood vessels or other part of the vasculature of a patient; the first image data cover at least one cardiac cycle of the patient; and the plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest as generated in i) covers different phases of the cardiac cycle of the patient, wherein the phases of the cardiac cycle of the patient are offset in time relative to a predefined reference part of the cardiac cycle of the patient.
3. A method according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising: processing an ECG signal synchronous with the second image data to determine a phase of the cardiac cycle of the patient that corresponds to the second image data; and selecting the one roadmap in iii) by matching the phase of the cardiac cycle of the patient for the second image data to the phase of the cardiac cycle of the patient for the one roadmap.
4. A method according to any preceding claim, further comprising: processing the first image data to determine a phase of the cardiac cycle of the patient for an image frame and associating the phase of the cardiac cycle to a roadmap corresponding to the image frame.
5. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein: the plurality of roadmaps are derived from a three-dimensional model of the object of interest extracted, for example, from at least one image modality selected from the group consisting of computed tomography (CT), X-ray rotational angiography, 3D Ultrasound, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
6. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein: the plurality of roadmaps is derived from two X-ray angiographic image sequences of the object of interest acquired with a contrast agent.
7. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein: the plurality of roadmaps is derived from a three-dimensional model of the object of interest and at least one X-ray angiographic image sequence of the object of interest acquired with a contrast agent.
8. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein: the plurality of roadmaps includes information that characterizes properties, such as centerlines, contours and/or image mask, of the object of interest.
9. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein: the plurality of roadmaps include at least one measurement for the object of interest selected from the group consisting of location and extent of vessel obstruction, diameter and area, pressure, blood velocity, fractional flow reserve, wall shear stress, vessel curvature, amount of foreshortening, location and extent and type of coronary plaque, location and extent of coronary total occlusion, or location and extent of coronary obstruction.
10. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein: in ii), the plurality of reference locations of the device in the second image data is determined using a Bayesian filtering method.
1 1 . A method according to claim 10, wherein: the Bayesian filtering method employs a deep learning network to estimate likelihood of the location of the device in the second image data; and/or the Bayesian filtering method equates location of the device to the weighted arithmetic mean of a plurality of positions and their associated weights: and/or the Bayesian filtering method resamples points around a position with a high weight value.
12. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein: the operations of v) apply a transformation to the one roadmap in order to compensate for motion between the first image data and second image data, including, for example, breathing motion and/or cardiac motion and/or patient motion and/or table motion.
13. A method according to claim 12, wherein: the transformation comprises a rigid transformation or a non-rigid transformation to the one roadmap based on a displacement obtained from the reference location of the device corresponding to the one roadmap selected in iii) and the location of the device determined in iv).
14. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein: the visual representation of the dynamic roadmap is generated by
- projecting the overlay of the dynamic roadmap onto the second image data using a transparent mode, and/or
- dilating the dynamic roadmap and projecting the boundaries of the resultant dynamic roadmap onto the second image data; whereby the visual representation of the dynamic roadmap is configured to not obscure the interventional device.
15. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein: the plurality of reference locations is stored as part of the plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest the selected roadmap comprising a threedimensional roadmap that is transformed to generate at least one dynamic roadmap for overlay on the second image data.
16. A method according to claim 15, wherein: the three-dimensional roadmap is transformed according to the viewpoint used to acquire the second image data or the second image data is acquired from a viewpoint different from the first image data.
17. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein: the one roadmap comprises a two-dimensional roadmap that is transformed to generate at least one dynamic roadmap for overlay on the second image data; and the first image data and the second image data are acquired from a common viewpoint.
18. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein: the first image data is derived by subtraction of a baseline image; and the second image is obtained by subtraction of the baseline image.
19. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein: the first image data is angiographic image data acquired using an X-ray imaging modality with a contrast agent; and the second image data is fluoroscopic image data acquired using an X-ray imaging modality without a contrast agent.
20. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein: the operations of iii) to vi) are repeated for successive image frames of the second image data to display the overlay of the visual representation of the dynamic roadmap of the object of interest on the image frames of the second image data.
21. A method according to claim 20, wherein: a roadmap is selected for each respective image frame in successive image frames of the second image data for transformation and overlay in the image frames of the second image data for dynamic guidance; or one roadmap is selected for successive image frames of the second image data for transformation and overlay in the image frames of the second image data for static guidance.
22. A non-transitory program storage device tangibly embodying a program of instructions that are executable on a machine to carry out the method of any claim 1 to 21.
23. A system for generating an image of an object of interest of a patient, comprising: at least one processor that, when executing program instructions stored in memory, is configured to i) obtain first image data of the object of interest, wherein the first image data is acquired with a contrast agent and an interventional device is present in the first image data; ii) use the first image data to generate a plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest; iii) determine a plurality of reference locations of the device in the first image data, wherein the plurality of reference locations correspond to the plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest; iv) obtain second image data of the object of interest, wherein the second image data is acquired without a contrast agent and the device is present in the second image data; v) select one roadmap from the plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest; vi) determine a location of the device in the second image data; vii) use the reference location of the device corresponding to the one roadmap selected in v) and the location of the device determined in vi) to transform the one roadmap selected in v) to generate a dynamic roadmap of the object of interest; and viii) overlay a visual representation of the dynamic roadmap of the object of interest as generated in vii) on the second image data for display.
24. A system according to claim 23, further comprising: an imaging acquisition subsystem configured to acquire the first image data and the second image data.
25. A system according to claim 24, wherein: the imaging acquisition subsystem uses an X-ray imaging modality.
26. A system according to any claim 23 to 25, further comprising: a display subsystem configured to display the overlay of the visual representation of the dynamic roadmap of the object of interest as generated in viii) on the second image data.
</claims>
</document>
