<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/36,G06F21/56,G06F8/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUANG YAN
FIRMAN, ILYA
RAO, NIKHIL
IYER, Anil
LIN, Owen
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65995853
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ASSESSING APPLICATIONS FOR DELIVERY VIA AN APPLICATION DELIVERY SERVER
</title>

<abstract>
Analyzing or debugging applications is provided. The system identifies an action for an application provided by a developer. The system determines a first classification score based on historical execution of the action. The system generates a machine generated action for the application based on metadata associated with the application. The system determines a second classification score based on a comparison of the action with the machine generated action. The system selects, via a matching program, a second application that matches the application. The system determines a third classification score based on a comparison of an action approved for the second application with the action provided by the application developer. The system updates a delivery control parameter based on the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score. The system controls delivery of the application based on the delivery control parameter.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system to debug applications for delivery via an application delivery server, comprising: a data processing system comprising one or more processors and memory to:
identify, for an application submitted by an application developer, a messaging object configured with an action by the application developer;
determine a first classification score based on historical execution of the action of the messaging object provided by the application developer;
generate a machine generated action for the application based on metadata associated with the application;
determine a second classification score based on a comparison of the action of the messaging object provided by the application developer with the machine generated action; select, via a matching program, a second application that matches the application; determine a third classification score based on a comparison of an action approved for the second application with the action of the messaging object provided by the application developer;
update a delivery control parameter based on the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score; and
control, responsive to the delivery control parameter updated by the data processing system, delivery of the application by the application delivery server.
2. The system of claim 1, comprising the data processing system to:
receive the application from an application developer device; and
receive a data file associated with the application comprising a plurality of actions established by the application developer for the application.
3. The system of claim 1 or 2, comprising the data processing system to:
receive an indication that the application is a new application uploaded by the application developer for delivery by the application delivery server; and
trigger, responsive to the indication of the new application, a debugging process comprising determination of the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score.
4. The system of any preceding claim, comprising the data processing system to:
receive an indication that the application is an updated version of the application uploaded by the application developer for delivery by the application delivery server; and trigger, responsive to the indication of the updated version of the application, a debugging process comprising determination of the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score.
5. The system of any preceding claim, comprising the data processing system to:
receive an indication of negative feedback for the application from a client computing device on which the application is installed; and
trigger, responsive to the indication of the negative feedback for the application, a debugging process comprising determination of the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score.
6. The system of any preceding claim, comprising:
the data processing system to determine to trigger a debugging process comprising determination of the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score prior to delivery of the application for installation on a client computing device.
7. The system of any preceding claim, wherein:
the first classification score indicates whether an action corresponding to the application is satisfied based on a comparison of the first classification score with a threshold.
8. The system of any preceding claim, comprising:
the data processing system to determine that the application matches the second application based on a similarity score between the application and the second application greater than a similarity threshold.
9. The system of any preceding claim, comprising the data processing system to:
determine to authorize delivery of the application based on the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score; and
update the delivery control parameter to cause delivery of the application by the application delivery server.
10. The system of any preceding claim, comprising the data processing system to:
determine a classification failure based on at least one of the first classification score, the second classification score or the third classification score being less than a failure threshold; and
update, responsive to the classification failure, the delivery control parameter to block delivery of the application by the application delivery server.
11. The system of any preceding claim, comprising the data processing system to:
determine a classification failure based on the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score;
update, responsive to the classification failure, the delivery control parameter to block delivery of the application by the application delivery server; and
transmit a notification to the application developer of the classification failure.
12. The system of any of claims 1 to 10, comprising the data processing system to:
determine a classification failure based on the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score; and
request, responsive to the classification failure, an updated version of the application from the application developer.
13. The system of any preceding claim, comprising the data processing system to:
determine, for the action of the messaging object, a classification failure based on the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score; disable, responsive to the classification failure, the action of the messaging object for execution via the application; and
authorize the application for delivery by the application delivery server.
14. The system of any preceding claim, comprising the data processing system to:
identify a plurality of actions established for the application;
determine, via a debugging process for each of the plurality of actions, a first classification score, a second classification score and a third classification score; and
update the delivery control parameter to disable one or more of the plurality of actions based on the debugging process.
15. The system of any preceding claim, comprising the data processing system to:
identify a plurality of digital surfaces for execution of the action of the messaging object of the application; and
update the delivery control parameter to disable execution of the action of the messaging object of the application on a digital surface of the plurality of digital surfaces.
16. The system of any preceding claim, comprising the data processing system to:
trigger a debugging process for a third application;
determine, via the debugging process for the third application, a first classification score for the third application;
detect a first classification failure based on a comparison of the first classification score for the third application with a first classification threshold;
exit, responsive to detection of the first classification failure, the debugging process for the third application prior to determining a second classification score for the third application or a third classification score for the third application; and
transmit a notification of the first classification failure to an administrator device.
17. A method of debugging applications for delivery via an application delivery server, comprising:
identifying, by a data processing system comprising one or more processors and memory, for an application submitted by an application developer, a messaging object configured with an action by the application developer;
determining, by the data processing system, a first classification score based on historical execution of the action of the messaging object provided by the application developer;
generating, by the data processing system, a machine generated action for the application based on metadata associated with the application;
determining, by the data processing system, a second classification score based on a comparison of the action of the messaging object provided by the application developer with the machine generated action;
selecting, by the data processing system via matching program, a second application that matches the application; determining, by the data processing system, a third classification score based on a comparison of an action approved for the second application with the action of the messaging object provided by the application developer;
updating, by the data processing system, a delivery control parameter based on the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score; and controlling, by the data processing system responsive to the delivery control parameter updated by the data processing system, delivery of the application by the application delivery server.
18. The method of claim 17, comprising:
receiving, by the data processing system, the application from an application developer device; and
receiving, by the data processing system, a data file associated with the application comprising a plurality of actions established by the application developer for the application.
19. The method of claim 17 or 18, comprising:
determining to authorize delivery of the application based on the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score; and
updating the delivery control parameter to cause delivery of the application by the application delivery server.
20. The method of any of claims 17 to 19, comprising:
determining a classification failure based on at least one of the first classification score, the second classification score or the third classification score being less than a failure threshold; and
updating, responsive to the classification failure, the delivery control parameter to block delivery of the application by the application delivery server.
</claims>
</document>
