<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/20,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/00,G06N5/02,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HORVITZ, ERIC JOEL
KAMAR EDEN, Semiha Ece
NUSHI, Besmira
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70293124
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CHARACTERIZING FAILURES OF A MACHINE LEARNING MODEL BASED ON INSTANCE FEATURES
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to systems, methods, and computer readable media that evaluate performance of a machine learning system in connection with a test dataset. For example, systems disclosed herein may receive a test dataset and identify label information for the test dataset including feature information and ground truth data. The systems disclosed herein can compare the ground truth data and outputs generated by a machine learning system to evaluate performance of the machine learning system with respect to the test dataset. The systems disclosed herein may further generate feature clusters based on failed outputs and corresponding features and generate a number of performance views that illustrate performance of the machine learning system with respect to clustered groupings of the test dataset.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising:
receiving a plurality of outputs for a test dataset, the test dataset comprising a plurality of test instances;
identifying label information associated with the test dataset, the label information comprising feature labels associated with respective instances from the plurality of test instances and ground truth data corresponding to expected outputs of a machine learning system with respect to the plurality of test instances;
comparing the label information and the plurality of outputs to identify a set of error labels associated with a subset of outputs from the plurality of outputs that are inaccurate with respect to corresponding label information; and
generating a plurality of feature clusters comprising groupings of test instances from the plurality of test instances based on the feature labels and the set of error labels.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a plurality of performance views associated with performance of the machine learning system with respect to the plurality of feature clusters wherein generating the plurality of performance views comprises:
generating a global performance view including an indication of performance of the machine learning system with respect to each feature cluster from the plurality of feature clusters; or
generating a plurality of cluster views including, for each feature cluster of the plurality of feature clusters, a multi-branch view representative of performance of the machine learning system with respect to two or more subsets of test instances from the feature cluster.
3. The method as in any of claims 1 or 2, wherein identifying label information comprises one or more of:
receiving the ground truth data based on information provided by individuals when presented with the plurality of test instances; or
applying an augmented feature model trained to identify features from a set of instances to the plurality of test instances to generate the feature labels based on features identified in connection with respective test instances of the plurality of test instances.
4. The method as in any of claims 1-3, wherein generating the plurality of feature clusters comprises:
identifying combinations of one or more feature labels having a higher correlation to the set of error labels than other combinations of one or more feature labels; and grouping the test instances in accordance with the identified combinations of one or more feature labels having the higher correlation to the set of error labels.
5. The method as in any of claims 1-3, wherein generating the plurality of feature clusters comprises applying a clustering model trained to identify groupings of test instances from a collection of test instances based on groupings of features associated with output failures generated by a given machine learning model.
6. The method as in any of claims 1-5, further comprising:
identifying, from the plurality of feature clusters, a feature cluster of interest based on a rate of error labels associated with a corresponding grouping of test instances for the feature cluster of interest; and
refining the machine learning system by selectively collecting additional training data including a plurality of training instances based on associated label information, wherein the associated label information includes one or more feature labels associated with the identified feature cluster of interest.
7. The method as in any of claims 1-6, wherein the output for the given instance comprises a classification of a digital media content item, the classification comprising one or more of a predicted user rating for the digital media content item, an identification of objects within the digital media content item, a count of objects within the digital media content item, a description of content within the digital media content item, or an indication of quality of the digital media content item.
8. The method as in any of claims 1-7, wherein the machine learning system comprises a first machine learning model trained to generate a first output for the given instance and a second machine learning model trained to generate a second output for the given instance, wherein the output for the given instance is based on a combination of the first output and the second output.
9. A system, comprising:
one or more processors;
memory in electronic communication with the one or more processors; and instructions stored in the memory, the instructions being executable by the one or more processors to:
receive a plurality of outputs for a test dataset, the test dataset comprising a plurality of test instances;
identify label information associated with the test dataset, the label information comprising feature labels associated with respective instances from the plurality of test instances and ground truth data corresponding to expected outputs of a machine learning system with respect to the plurality of test instances;
compare the label information and the plurality of outputs to identify a set of error labels associated with a subset of outputs from the plurality of outputs that are inaccurate with respect to corresponding label information; and
generate a plurality of feature clusters comprising groupings of test instances from the plurality of test instances based on the feature labels and the set of error labels.
10. The system of claim 9, further comprising instructions being executable by the one or more processors to generate a plurality of performance views associated with performance of the machine learning system with respect to the plurality of feature clusters.
11. The system as in any of claims 9 or 10, wherein identifying label information comprises:
receiving label information previously associated with the test dataset; and augmenting the label information by applying an augmented feature model trained to identify features associated with a given set of instances to the plurality of test instances to identify one or more additional features associated with the plurality of test instances not previously included within the received label information.
12. The system as in any of claims 9-11, further comprising instructions being executable by the one or more processors to:
identify, from the plurality of feature clusters, a feature cluster of interest based on a rate of error labels associated with a corresponding grouping of test instances for the feature cluster of interest; and
refine the machine learning system by selectively collecting additional training data including a plurality of training instances based on associated label information, wherein the associated label information includes one or more feature labels associated with the identified feature cluster of interest.
13. A computer-readable storage medium including instructions thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, cause a server device to:
receive a plurality of outputs for a test dataset, the test dataset comprising a plurality of test instances;
identify label information associated with the test dataset, the label information comprising feature labels associated with respective instances from the plurality of test instances and ground truth data corresponding to expected outputs of a machine learning system with respect to the plurality of test instances;
compare the label information and the plurality of outputs to identify a set of error labels associated with a subset of outputs from the plurality of outputs that are inaccurate with respect to corresponding label information; and
generate a plurality of feature clusters comprising groupings of test instances from the plurality of test instances based on the feature labels and the set of error labels.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the server device to:
generate a plurality of performance views associated with performance of the machine learning system with respect to the plurality of feature clusters.
15. The computer-readable storage medium as in any of claims 13 or 14, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the server device to:
identify, from the plurality of feature clusters, a feature cluster of interest based on a rate of error labels associated with a corresponding grouping of test instances for the feature cluster of interest; and
refine the machine learning system by selectively collecting additional training data including a plurality of training instances based on associated label information, wherein the associated label information includes one or more feature labels associated with the identified feature cluster of interest.
</claims>
</document>
