<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L9/08,H04W12/00,H04W4/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICRON TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MONDELLO, ANTONINO
TROIA, ALBERTO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72603727
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SECURE VEHICLE COMMUNICATIONS ARCHITECTURE FOR IMPROVED BLIND SPOT AND DRIVING DISTANCE DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are techniques for improving an advanced driver-assistance system (ADAS) using a secure channel area. In one embodiment, a method is disclosed comprising establishing a secure channel area extending from at least one side of a first vehicle; detecting a presence of a second vehicle in the secure channel area; establishing a secure connection with the second vehicle upon detecting the presence; exchanging messages between the first vehicle and the second vehicle, the messages including a position and speed of a sending vehicle; taking control of a position and speed of the first vehicle based on the contents of the messages; and releasing control of the position and speed of the first vehicle upon detecting that the secure connection was released.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method comprising:
establishing a secure channel area extending from at least one side of a first vehicle;
detecting a presence of a second vehicle in the secure channel area;
establishing a secure connection with the second vehicle upon detecting the presence;
exchanging messages between the first vehicle and the second vehicle, the messages including a position and speed of a sending vehicle;
taking control of a position and speed of the first vehicle based on the contents of the messages; and
releasing control of the position and speed of the first vehicle upon detecting that the secure connection was released.
2. The method of claim 1, the establishing the secure channel area extending from at least one side of the first vehicle comprising establishing the secure channel area on the left or right side of the first vehicle
3. The method of claim 1, the establishing the secure channel area extending from at least one side of the first vehicle comprising establishing the secure channel area on the front or rear side of the first vehicle.
4. The method of claim 1, the establishing the secure connection comprising confirming that a connection pool has at least one available connection prior to establishing the connection and, if not, denying the secure connection.
5. The method of claim 1, the exchanging messages between the first vehicle and the second vehicle comprising transmitting signed messages between the first and second vehicles, the signed messages including a triple identifying a cryptographic identifier, public key, and certificate of the sending vehicle.
6. The method of claim 1, the exchanging messages between the first vehicle and the second vehicle comprising verifying signatures associated with the messages.
7. The method of claim 1, the detecting that the secure connection was released comprising detecting that the second vehicle has exited the secure channel area.
8. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium for tangibly storing computer program instructions capable of being executed by a computer processor, the computer program instructions defining the steps of:
establishing a secure channel area extending from at least one side of a first vehicle;
detecting a presence of a second vehicle in the secure channel area;
establishing a secure connection with the second vehicle upon detecting the presence;
exchanging messages between the first vehicle and the second vehicle, the messages including a position and speed of a sending vehicle;
taking control of a position and speed of the first vehicle based on the contents of the messages; and
releasing control of the position and speed of the first vehicle upon detecting that the secure connection was released.
9. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, the establishing the secure channel area extending from at least one side of the first vehicle comprising establishing the secure channel area on the left or right side of the first vehicle
10. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, the establishing the secure channel area extending from at least one side of the first vehicle comprising establishing the secure channel area on the front or rear side of the first vehicle.
11. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, the establishing the secure connection comprising confirming that a connection pool has at least one available connection prior to establishing the connection and, if not, denying the secure connection.
12. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, the exchanging messages between the first vehicle and the second vehicle comprising transmitting signed messages between the first and second vehicles, the signed messages including a triple identifying a cryptographic identifier, public key, and certificate of the sending vehicle.
13. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, the exchanging messages between the first vehicle and the second vehicle comprising verifying signatures associated with the messages.
14. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, the detecting that the secure connection was released comprising detecting that the second vehicle has exited the secure channel area.
15. A device comprising:
a processor; and
a storage medium for tangibly storing thereon program logic for execution by the processor, the stored program logic comprising:
logic, executed by the processor, for establishing a secure channel area extending from at least one side of a first vehicle,
logic, executed by the processor, for detecting a presence of a second vehicle in the secure channel area,
logic, executed by the processor, for establishing a secure connection with the second vehicle upon detecting the presence,
logic, executed by the processor, for exchanging messages between the first vehicle and the second vehicle, the messages including a position and speed of a sending vehicle,
logic, executed by the processor, for taking control of a position and speed of the first vehicle based on the contents of the messages, and logic, executed by the processor, for releasing control of the position and speed of the first vehicle upon detecting that the secure connection was released.
16. The device of claim 15, the logic for establishing the secure channel area extending from at least one side of the first vehicle comprising logic, executed by the processor, for establishing the secure channel area on the left or right side of the first vehicle
17. The device of claim 15, the logic for establishing the secure channel area extending from at least one side of the first vehicle comprising logic, executed by the processor, for establishing the secure channel area on the front or rear side of the first vehicle.
18. The device of claim 15, the logic for establishing the secure connection comprising logic, executed by the processor, for confirming that a connection pool has at least one available connection prior to establishing the connection and, if not, denying the secure connection.
19. The device of claim 15, the logic for exchanging messages between the first vehicle and the second vehicle comprising logic, executed by the processor, for transmitting signed messages between the first and second vehicles, the signed messages including a triple identifying a cryptographic identifier, public key, and certificate of the sending vehicle.
20. The device of claim 15, the logic for detecting that the secure connection was released comprising logic, executed by the processor, for detecting that the second vehicle has exited the secure channel area.
</claims>
</document>
