<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/50,G01N33/53,G01N33/68
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STANFORD UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROSENTHAL, EBEN
WU, SEAN
BEYERSDORF, Benjamin
GOODYER, William R.
VAN DEN BERG, Nynke
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74115269
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NOVEL MOLECULAR TOOLS TO VISUALIZE AND TARGET THE CARDIAC CONDUCTION SYSTEM (CCS)
</title>

<abstract>
Antibodies which bind selectively to cardiac conduction system (CCS) cells, imaging and/or diagnostic reagents and compositions visualizing the CCS cells and therapeutic products and compositions comprising one or more of the antibodies. Methods for delivering therapeutic agents to the CCS cells. The disclosure further provides methods for visualizing the CCS cells in vivo in real time, including in a subject undergoing a cardiothoracic surgery or other cardiac intervention. Compositions and methods for isolation, purification, analyses and/or transplantation of the CCS cells, including pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived or human embryonic stem cell (hESC)-derived CCS cells.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. An antibody comprising an antigen binding site which recognizes selectively and binds specifically to the CCS cell surface marker displayed at the outer surface of the CCS cell membrane of the CCS cell.
2. The antibody of claim 1, wherein the CCS cell surface marker is a protein, an extracellular domain, or a fragment, or a variant or an epitope encoded by a gene listed in Table 1 or any human homologue thereof
3. The antibody of claim 1, wherein the CCS cell surface marker is Neurotrimin, Neuroplastin, Contactin 2, or any fragment or variant thereof displayed at the outer surface of the CCS cell membrane of the CCS cell.
4. The antibody of claim 1, 2, or 3, wherein the antibody is a diabody, scFv, Fab or F(ab)2.
5. The antibody of claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein the antibody is a polyclonal antibody, monoclonal antibody, a single-chain antibody, a chimeric antibody, or a humanized monoclonal antibody.
6. A composition comprising the antibody of any one of claims 1-5, and one or more excipients.
7. The composition of claim 6, wherein the composition is formulated for oral, topical, local or systemic delivery to a patient.
8. The composition of claim 6 or 7, wherein the composition comprises water, a buffer, a solvent, a carrier, a bulking agent and/or a filler.
9. A method of treating a subject, the method comprising administering to the subject the composition of claim 6, 7 or 8.
10. An imaging and/or diagnostic reagent comprising an antibody conjugated to one or more detection agents, the imaging and/or diagnostic reagent capable of binding to a cell of the cardiac conductions system (CCS), and wherein the antibody has a binding affinity to a CCS cell surface marker displayed at the outer surface of the CCS cell membrane of the CCS cell.
11. The imaging and/or diagnostic reagent of claim 10, wherein the detection agent is one or more of the following: an imaging dye comprising a chromophore, a fluorophore, a tag, a radioactive isotope, a small molecule, a biomolecule, and/or a nanoparticle.
12. The imaging and/or diagnostic reagent of claim 10, wherein the detection agent comprises a biocompatible near-infrared fluorophore.
13. The imaging and/or diagnostic reagent of claim 10, wherein the CCS cell surface marker is a protein, an extracellular domain, or a fragment, or a variant or an epitope encoded by a gene listed in Table 1 or any human homologue thereof.
14. The imaging and/or diagnostic reagent of claim 10, wherein the antibody is specific to Neurotrimin, Neuroplastin, Contactin 2, or any fragment or variant thereof displayed at the outer surface of the CCS cell membrane of the CCS cell.
15. The imaging and/or diagnostic reagent of any one of claims 10-14, wherein the antibody is a diabody, scFv, Fab or F(ab)2
16. The imaging and/or diagnostic reagent of any one of claims 10-15, wherein the antibody is a polyclonal antibody, monoclonal antibody, a single-chain antibody, a chimeric antibody, or a humanized monoclonal antibody.
17. The imaging and/or diagnostic reagent of any one of claims 10-16, wherein the antibody is conjugated directly to the detection agent.
18. The imaging and/or diagnostic reagent of claim 10, wherein the antibody is conjugated to the detection agent indirectly via a linker or a carrier.
19. A composition comprising one or more excipients and the imaging and/or diagnostic reagent of any one of claims 10-18.
20. The composition of claim 19, wherein the composition is formulated for oral, topical, local or systemic delivery.
21. The composition of claim 19, wherein the composition comprises from 0.1 wt% to 99.9 wt% of the CCS imaging and/or diagnostic reagent and from 0.1 wt% to 99.9 wt% of the one or more excipients.
22. A method for visualizing the CCS in a subject, the method comprising
administering to the subject one or more of the following: the imaging and/or diagnostic reagent of claims 10-18, and/or the composition of claims 19-21.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the method further comprises detecting the CCS in the subject in real time.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the detecting comprises one of more of the following: ultrasound, computed tomography, illuminating with a scope the CCS of the subject under UV, visible, and/or infrared light; and/or directly shining the UV, visible, and/or infrared light at the CCS of the subject.
25. The method of any one of cl i s 22-24, wherein the method further comprises capturing images of the CCS in real time with camera.
26. The method of any one of claims 22-25, wherein the subject is undergoing a cardiothoracic surgery or a catheter procedure.
27. A method for preparing the imaging and/or diagnostic reagent of claims 10-18, the method comprising linking an antibody specific for the CCS cell surface marker to the detection agent.
28. A therapeutic product comprising an antibody conjugated to one or more therapeutic drugs, the therapeutic product being capable of binding to a cell of the cardiac conductions system (CCS), and wherein the antibody has a binding affinity to a CCS cell surface marker displayed at the outer surface of the CCS cell membrane.
29. The therapeutic product of claim 28, wherein the CCS cell surface marker is a protein, an extracellular domain, or a fragment, or a variant or an epitope encoded by a gene listed in Table 1 or any human homologue thereof.
30. The therapeutic product of claim 28, wherein the antibody is specific to
Neurotrimin, Neuroplastin, Contactin 2, or any fragment or variant thereof displayed at the outer surface of the CCS cell membrane of the CCS cell.
31. The therapeutic product of any one of claims 28-30, wherein the antibody is a diabody, scFv, Fab or F(ab)2
32. The therapeutic product of any one of claims 28-31, wherein the antibody is a polyclonal antibody, monoclonal antibody, a single-chain antibody, a chimeric antibody, or a humanized monoclonal antibody.
33. The therapeutic product of any one of claims 28-32, wherein the antibody is conjugated directly to the therapeutic drug.
34. The therapeutic product of any one of claims 28-31, wherein the therapeutic drug is encapsulated, and the antibody is displayed at the outer surface of the capsule.
35. The therapeutic product of claim 34, wherein the therapeutic drug is encapsulated in a liposome.
36. The therapeutic product of any one of claims 28-35, wherein the therapeutic drug is a small molecule or a biomolecule.
37. The therapeutic product of any one of claims 28-35, wherein the therapeutic drug digoxin, a calcium channel blocker, a beta blocker, an anti-arrhythmic drug, or RNA or DNA that can silence or activate at least one biologic function of the CCS cell.
38. The therapeutic product of any one of claims 28-35, wherein the therapeutic drug is an antiarrhythmics drug, an CCS agonist drug, and/or an anti-inflammatory drug.
39. The therapeutic product of any one of claims 28-35, wherein the therapeutic drug is diltiazem, verapamil, metoprolol, carvedilol, atenolol, digoxin, adenosine,
dipyridamole, diphtheria toxin A, methotrexate, doxorubicin, isoproterenol, epinephrine, glucocorticoid, cyclosporin A or tacrolimus.
40. A composition comprising one or more excipients and the therapeutic product of any one of cl ims 28-39.
41. The composition of claim 40, wherein the excipient comprises water, a buffer and/or any other solvent and/or carrier, e.g. a liposome.
42. The composition of claim 40 or 41, wherein the composition is formulated for oral, topical, systemic or local administration.
43. The composition of any one of claims 40-42, wherein the composition comprises from 0.1 wt% to 99.9 wt% of the therapeutic product and from 0.1 wt% to 99.9 wt% of the one or more excipients.
44. A method of treating a patient in need for treatment of the CCS related disorder or disease, the method comprising administering to the patient the composition of any one of cl ims 40-43.
45. The method of claim 44, wherein the patient is treated for one of the following diseases: cardiac arrhythmia, accelerated heart rhythm, heart block, or atrial or ventricular fibrillation.
46. The method of claim 44 or 45, wherein the patient is administered from 0.05 mg to about 100 mg of the therapeutic drug per one kilogram of the body weight.
47. A method for separation of a CCS cell from a mixture of cells, the method comprising:
contacting the mixture of cells with an antibody comprising an antigen binding site which recognizes selectively and binds specifically to the CCS cell surface marker displayed at the outer surface of the CCS cell membrane of the CCS cell; and
- separating CCS cells bound to the antibody from the mixture.
48. The method of claim 47, wherein the antibody is conjugated to a detection agent.
49. The method of claim 47 or 48, wherein the antibody is bound to a solid support and/or magnetic beads.
50. The method of any one of claims 47-49, wherein the separation comprises one or more of the following: centrifugation and FACS sorting.
51. The method of any one of claims 47-50, wherein the CCS cells are human-induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived, human embryonic stem cell (hESC)-derived conduction cells and/or conduction cells derived from living mammalian heart tissue.
52. A method for producing a recombinant CCS cell from a human-induced pluripotent stem cell or a human-embryonic stem cell, the method comprising
differentiating a population of the human-induced pluripotent stem cell or the humanembryonic stem cell into the CCS cells, and reacting the population with an antibody comprising an antigen binding site which recognizes selectively and binds specifically to the CCS cell surface marker displayed at the outer surface of the CCS cell membrane of the CCS cell.
</claims>
</document>
