<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHARADWAJ, ARAVIND
SITARAMAN, RAM MOHAN
KUNDU, ANANDA
SARAVANAN, N
SHERIFF, DAYAN
VENUGOPAL, SHANKAR
KUCHIMANCHI, RAJESWAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69525325
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
'METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR GENERATING PRESCRIPTION PLANS FOR A REGION UNDER CULTIVATION'
</title>

<abstract>
The embodiments herein disclose methods and systems for generating a prescription plan for a region under cultivation, a system includes a first data acquisition device coupled to a first vehicle, a second data acquisition device coupled to a second vehicle and a controller. The first data acquisition device and the second data acquisition device collect information from a first portion and a second portion of a canopy structure present in the region under cultivation respectively. The collected information may include imagery information, sensory information and geo-positioning information. Based on the collected information, the controller identifies at least one event across at least one of the first portion and the second portion of the canopy structure. The controller further generates an event map and a remedy plan for the identified at least one event. Based on the event map and the remedy plan, the controller generates the prescription plan.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system (100) for generating a prescription plan for a region under cultivation, the system (100) comprising:
a first data acquisition device (l02a) coupled to a first vehicle (200a), configured to:
collect at least one of a first imagery information and a first sensory information from a first portion of a canopy structure present in the region under cultivation; and
collect a first geo position corresponding to the first portion of the canopy structure; a second data acquisition device (l02b) coupled to a second vehicle, configured to:
collect at least one of a second imagery information and a second sensory information from a second portion of the canopy structure present in the region under cultivation; and collect a second geo position corresponding to the second portion of the canopy structure; and
a controller (104) communicatively coupled to the first data acquisition device (l02a) and the second data acquisition device (l02b), configured to:
identify at least one event across at least one of the first portion of the canopy structure and the second portion of the canopy structure, wherein the at least one event is identified using at least one of the first imagery information, the first sensory information, the second imagery information and the second sensory information;
generate an event map comprising the at least one identified event for at least one of the first portion of the canopy structure and the second portion of the canopy structure using at least one of the first geo position and the second geo position;
generate at least one remedy plan for the at least one event identified across the at least one of the first portion of the canopy structure and the second portion of the canopy structure; and
generate at least one prescription plan based on the event map and the at least one remedy plan.
2. The system (100) of claim 1, wherein the first portion of the canopy structure includes a field of view below the canopy structure and the second portion of the canopy structure includes a field of view above the canopy structure.
3. The system (100) of claim 1, wherein the controller (104) is communicatively coupled to the first data acquisition device (l02a) and the second data acquisition device (l02b) using at least one wireless communication network.
4. The system (100) of claim 1, wherein the first vehicle (200a) further comprises a first vehicle controller (202a) and the second vehicle (200b) further comprises a second vehicle controller (202b).
5. The system (100) of claim 4, wherein the first vehicle controller (202a) is further configured to control the second vehicle controller (202b) for synchronizing geographical location of the first vehicle (200a) and the second vehicle (200b), wherein the geographical location of the first vehicle (200a) and the second vehicle (200b) is synchronized to collect geo-position synchronized at least one of the first imagery information, the first sensory information, the second imagery information and the second sensory information from the first portion and the second portion of the canopy structure.
6. The system (100) of claim 1, wherein the controller (104) is further configured to:
extract at least one first feature from at least one of the first imagery information, the first sensory information and the first geo position;
extract at least one second feature from at least one of the second imagery information, the second sensory information and the second geo position;
identify the at least one event using the at least one extracted first feature and the at least one extracted second feature; and
perform classification of the at least one identified event.
7. The system (100) of claim 6, wherein the controller (104) is further configured to use at least one rule to identify the at least one event and perform classification of the at least one event.
8. The system (100) of claim 6, wherein the controller (104) is further configured to receive a first user input to identify the at least one event.
9. The system (100) of claim 1, wherein the controller (104) is further configured to: identify at least one remedy for the at least one event, wherein the at least one remedy is identified based on classification of the at least one event; and
generate the at least one remedy plan using the identified at least one remedy for the at least one event, wherein the remedy plan comprises volume of a remedy, concentration of the remedy, and dispersion plan of the remedy.
10. The system (100) of claim 9, wherein the controller (104) is further configured to receive a second user input to identify the at least one remedy for the at least one event.
11. The system (100) of claim 1, wherein the at least one prescription plan comprises geo position of the at least one event, identity of the at least one event, and the at least one remedy for the event.
12. A method for generating a prescription plan for a region under cultivation, the method comprising:
collecting, by a first data acquisition device (l02a) coupled to a first vehicle (200a), at least one of a first imagery information, a first sensory information and a first geo position from a first portion of a canopy structure present in the region under cultivation;
collecting, by a second data acquisition device (l02b) coupled to a second vehicle (200b), at least one of a second imagery information, a second sensory information and a second geo position from a second portion of a canopy structure present in the region under cultivation; identifying, by a controller (104), at least one event across at least one of the first portion of the canopy structure and the second portion of the canopy structure, wherein the at least one event is identified using at least one of the first imagery information, the first sensory information, the second imagery information and the second sensory information;
generating, by the controller (104), an event map for at least one of the first portion of the canopy structure and the second portion of the canopy structure using at least one of the first geo position and the second geo position, wherein the event map identifies at least one area from at least one of the first portion of the canopy structure and the second portion of the canopy structure with the at least one identified event;
generating, by the controller (104), at least one remedy plan for the at least one event identified across the at least one of the first portion of the canopy structure and the second portion of the canopy structure; generating, by the controller (104), at least one prescription plan based on the event map and the at least one remedy plan.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first portion of the canopy structure includes a field of view below the canopy structure and the second portion of the canopy structure includes a field of view above the canopy structure.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the controller (104) is communicatively coupled to the first data acquisition device (l02a) and the second data acquisition device (l02b) using at least one wireless communication network.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the first vehicle (200a) further comprises a first vehicle controller (202a) and the second vehicle (200b) further comprises a second vehicle controller (202b).
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises controlling, by the first vehicle controller (202a), the second vehicle controller (202b) for synchronizing geographical location of the first vehicle (200a) and the second vehicle (200b), wherein the geographical location of the first vehicle (200a) and the second vehicle (200b) is synchronized to collect geo-position synchronized at least one of the first imagery information, the first sensory information, the second imagery information and the second sensory information from the first portion and the second portion of the canopy structure.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein identifying the at least one event includes
extracting at least one first feature from at least one of the first imagery information, the first sensory information and the first geo position;
extracting at least one second feature from at least one of the second imagery information, the second sensory information and the second geo position;
identifying the at least one event using the at least one extracted first feature and the at least one extracted second feature; and
performing classification of the at least one event.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the method further comprises utilizing, by the controller (104), at least one rule to identify the at least one event and perform classification of the at least one event.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the method further comprises receiving, by the controller (104), a first user input to identify the at least one event.
20. The method of claim 12, wherein generating the at least one remedy plan includes identifying at least one remedy for the at least one event, wherein the at least one remedy is identified based on classification of the at least one event; and
generating the at least one remedy plan using the identified at least one remedy for the at least one event, wherein the remedy plan comprises volume of a remedy, concentration of the remedy, and dispersion plan of the remedy.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the method further comprises receiving, by the controller (104), a second user input to identify the at least one remedy for the at least one event.
22. The method of claim 12, wherein the prescription plan comprises geo position of the at least one event, identity of the at least one event, and the at least one remedy for the event.
</claims>
</document>
