<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WALMART APOLLO
</assignee>

<inventors>
PAVLIDIS, IOANNIS
KHURANA, KARAN
TRIPATHY, Chittaranjan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73652050
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING SAMPLES TO CUSTOMERS IN AN ONLINE ENVIRONMENT
</title>

<abstract>
In some embodiments, apparatuses and methods are provided herein useful to providing personalized samples to customers. In some embodiments, a system for providing personalized samples to customers comprises an online shopping server configured to host an online shopping website and receive item selections indicating items to add to the customer's cart, a database configured to store a list of sample types, and a purchase likelihood estimator configured to receive the items to add to the customer's cart, determine an identity of the customer, determine customer traits, determine available sample types and traits associated with the available sample types, calculate a probability score based on the customer traits and the traits associated with each of the available sample types, and add, to the customer's cart based on the probability scores for each of the available sample types, one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types.
</abstract>

<claims>
CLAIMS What is claimed is: 1. A system for providing personalized samples to customers, the system comprising:
an online shopping server, wherein the online shopping server is configured to:
host an online shopping website; and
receive, from a customer, item selections, wherein the item selections indicate items to add to the customer's cart;
a database, wherein the database is configured to store a list of sample types; and a purchase likelihood estimator communicatively coupled to the online shopping server, the purchase likelihood estimator configured to:
receive, from the online shopping server, the items to add to the customer's cart; determine an identity of the customer;
determine, based on the identity of the customer, customer traits, wherein the customer traits are based on one or more of the customer's purchase history, the customer's browsing history, and the items to add to the customer's cart;
determine, based on accessing the database, available sample types and traits associated with the available sample types;
calculate, for each of the available sample types, a probability score, wherein the probability score is based on the customer traits and the traits associated with each of the available sample types, and wherein the probability score indicates a likelihood that the customer will purchase an item of each of the sample types; and
add, to the customer's cart based on the probability scores for each of the sample types, one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the purchase likelihood estimator is a module of a control circuit.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the purchase history includes online purchase history and in-store purchase history. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types are added to the customer's cart free of charge. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the purchase likelihood estimator is further configured to: receive, from the customer via a user interface, an indication that the customer would not like the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types added to the customer's cart; and
remove, from the customer's cart, the one or more sample from the one or more of the available sample types. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the purchase likelihood estimator selects the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types based on the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types having a highest probability score. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types complement at least one of the items to add to the customer's cart. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types compete with at least one of the items to add to the customer's cart. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types are provided by a manufacturer. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the purchase likelihood estimator calculates the probability score based on an equation, wherein the equation is: wherein the Probability Scorex is represents a likelihood that the customer will buy a sample from category X, wherein Pr is a function of B and X, wherein B represents a Boolean value, and wherein x represents the customer's traits. 11. A method for providing personalized samples to customer, the method comprising:
hosting, by an online shopping server, an online shopping website;
receiving, by the online shopping server from a customer, item selections, wherein the item selections indicate items to add to the customer's cart;
storing, in a database, a list of sample types;
receiving, from the online shopping server by a purchase likelihood estimator, the items to add to the customer's cart;
determining, by the purchase likelihood estimator, an identity of the customer;
determining, by the purchase likelihood estimator based on the identity of the customer, customer traits, wherein the customer traits are based on one or more of the customer's purchase history, the customer's browsing history, and the items to add to the customer's cart;
determining, by the purchase likelihood estimator based on accessing the database,
available sample types and traits associated with the available sample types; calculating, by the purchase likelihood estimator for each of the available sample types, a probability score, wherein the probability score is based on the customer traits and the traits associated with each of the available sample types, and wherein the probability score indicates a likelihood that the customer will purchase an item of each of the sample types; and
adding, by the purchase likelihood estimator to the customer's cart based on the
probability scores for each of the sample types, one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the purchase likelihood estimator is a module of a control circuit.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the purchase history includes online purchase history and in-store purchase history. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types are added to the customer's cart free of charge. 15. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
receiving, by the purchase likelihood estimator from the customer via a user interface, an indication that the customer would not like the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types added to the customer's cart; and removing, by the purchase likelihood estimator from the customer's cart, the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein the purchase likelihood estimator selects the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types based on the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types having a highest probability score. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types complement at least one of the items to add to the customer's cart. 18. The method of claim 11, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types compete with at least one of the items to add to the customer's cart. 19. The method of claim 11, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types are provided by a manufacturer. 20. The method of claim 11, wherein the purchase likelihood estimator calculates the probability score based on an equation, wherein the equation is: wherein the Probability Scorex represents a likelihood that the customer will buy a sample from category X, wherein Pr is a function of B and X, wherein B represents a Boolean value, and wherein x represents the customer's traits. 21. A system for providing personalized samples to customers, the system comprising: an online shopping server, wherein the online shopping server is configured to:
host an online shopping website; and
receive, from customers, item selections, wherein the item selections indicate items to add to the customers' carts;
a database, wherein the database is configured to store a list of sample types;
a purchase likelihood estimator communicatively coupled to the online shopping server, the purchase likelihood estimator configured to:
receive, from the online shopping server, the items to add to the customers' carts; determine identities of the customers;
determine, based on the identities of the customers, customer traits, wherein the customer traits are based on one or more of the customers' purchase histories, the customers' browsing histories, and the items to add to the customers' carts;
determine, based on accessing the database, available sample types and traits associated with the available sample types;
calculate, for each of the available sample types and for each of the customers, probability scores, wherein the probability scores are based on the customers' traits and the traits associated with each of the available sample types, and wherein the probability scores indicate a likelihood that each of the customers will purchase an item of each of the sample types; and
a personalized sample selector configured to:
determine, based on accessing the database, a quantity of each of the available sample types;
select, based on the probability scores and the quantity of each of the available sample types, one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types for each of the customers, wherein the selection is based on maximizing a sum of the probability scores; and
add, to the customers' carts based on the selection, the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types for each of the customers. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the purchase likelihood estimator and the personalized sample selector are modules of a control circuit. 23. The system of claim 21, wherein the personalized sample selector is further configured to:
update, in the database, the quantity of each of the available sample types after
distribution. 24. The system of claim 21, wherein the personalized sample selector selects the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types based on one or more of penalizedlogistic regression models, gradient boosting, random forest, and feed-forward neural network models. 25. The system of claim 21, wherein the purchase history includes online purchase history and in-store purchase history. 26. The system of claim 21, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more available sample types for each of the customers are added to the customer's carts free of charge. 27. The system of claim 21, wherein the customers can opt out of receiving a sample. 28. The system of claim 21, wherein the list of sample types includes the quantity of each of the available sample types. 29. The system of claim 21, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types for each of the customers are provided by a manufacturer.
30. The system of claim 21, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types for each of the customers is determined based on an equation, wherein the equation is:
wherein k represents a number of customers. 31. A method for providing personalized sample to customers, the method comprising:
hosting, by an online shopping server, an online shopping website;
receiving, by the online shopping server from customers, item selections, wherein the item selections indicate items to add to the customers' carts;
storing, in a database, a list of sample types;
receiving, by a purchase likelihood estimator from the online shopping server, the items to add to the customers' carts;
determining, by the purchase likelihood estimator, identities of the customers;
determining, by the purchase likelihood estimator based on the identities of the
customers, customer traits, wherein the customer traits are based on one or more of the customers' purchase histories, the customers' browsing habits, and the items to add to the customers' carts;
determining, by the purchase likelihood estimator based on accessing the database,
available sample types and traits associated with the available sample types; calculating, by the purchase likelihood estimator for each of the available sample types for each of the customers, probability scores, wherein the probability scores are based on the customers' traits and the traits associated with each of the available sample types, and wherein the probability scores indicate a likelihood that each of the customers will purchase an item of each of the sample types; determining, by a personalized sample selector based on accessing the database, a
quantity of each of the available sample types; selecting, based on the probability scores and the quantity of each of the available sample types, one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types for each of the customers, wherein the selection is based on maximizing a sum of the probability scores; and
adding, to the customers' carts based on the selecting, the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types for each of the customers. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the purchase likelihood estimator and the personalized sample selector are modules of a control circuit. 33. The method of claim 31, further comprising:
updating, by the personalized sample selectors in the database, the quantity of each of the available sample types after distribution. 34. The method of claim 31, wherein the personalized sample selector selects the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types based on one or more of penalized-logistic regression models, gradient boosting, random forest, and feed-forward neural network models. 35. The method of claim 31, wherein the purchase history includes online purchase history and in-store purchase history. 36. The method of claim 31, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more available sample types for each of the customers are added to the customer's carts free of charge. 37. The method of claim 31, wherein the customers can opt out of receiving a sample. 38. The method of claim 31, wherein the list of sample types includes the quantity of each of the available sample types.
39. The method of claim 31, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types for each of the customers are provided by a manufacturer. 40. The method of claim 31, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more of the available sample types for each of the customers is determined based on an equation, wherein the equation is:
wherein k represents a number of customers. 41. A system for providing personalized samples to customers, the system comprising:
an online shopping server, wherein the online shopping server is configured to:
host an online shopping website; and
receive, from a customer, item selections, wherein the item selections indicate items to add to the customer's cart;
a database, wherein the database is configured to store a list of sample types;
a purchase likelihood estimator communicatively coupled to the online shopping server, the purchase likelihood estimator configured to:
receive, from the online shopping server, the items to add to the customer's cart; determine an identity of the customer;
determine, based on the identity of the customer, customer traits, wherein the customer traits are based on one or more of the customer's purchase history, the customer's browsing history, and the items to add to the customer's cart;
determine, based on accessing the database, available sample types and traits associated with the available sample types; and
calculate, for each of the available sample types, a probability score, wherein the probability score is based on the customer traits and the traits associated with each of the available sample types, and wherein the probability score indicates a likelihood that the customer will purchase an item of each of the sample types; and
a customer choice executor configured to:
select, based on the probability scores for each of the sample types, two or more samples;
cause presentation, via a display device to the customer, of the two or more
samples; and
receive, via a user interface from the customer, a selection of at least one of the two or more samples;
the purchase likelihood estimator further configured to:
add, to the customer's cart, the at least one of the two or more samples. 42. The system of claim 41, wherein the purchase likelihood estimator and the customer choice executor are modules of a control circuit. 43. The system of claim 41, wherein the two or more samples includes X samples and the at least one of the two or more samples is Y samples, and wherein Y is less than X. 44. The system of claim 41, wherein each of the two or more samples have different types. 45. The system of claim 41, wherein each of the two or more samples have a same type. 46. The system of claim 41, wherein the purchase history includes online purchase history and in-store purchase history. 47. The system of claim 41, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more available sample types for each of the customers are added to the customer's carts free of charge. 48. The system of claim 41, wherein the purchase likelihood estimator is further configured to: receive, from the customer via a user interface, an indication that the customer would not like the at least one of the two or more samples added to the customer's cart; and remove, from the customer's cart, the at least one of the two or more samples. 49. The system of claim 41, wherein the at least one of the two or more samples is provided by a manufacturer. 50. A method for providing personalized samples to customer, the method comprising:
hosting, by an online shopping server, an online shopping website;
receiving, by the online shopping server from a customer, item selections, wherein the item selections indicate items to add to the customer's cart;
storing, in a database, a list of sample types;
receiving, from the online shopping server by a purchase likelihood estimator, the items to add to the customer's cart;
determining, by the purchase likelihood estimator, an identity of the customer;
determining, by the purchase likelihood estimator based on the identity of the customer, customer traits, wherein the customer traits are based on one or more of the customer's purchase history, the customer's browsing history, and the items to add to the customer's cart;
determining, by the purchase likelihood estimator based on accessing the database,
available sample types and traits associated with the available sample types; calculating, by the purchase likelihood estimator for each of the available sample types, a probability score, wherein the probability score is based on the customer traits and the traits associated with each of the available sample types, and wherein the probability score indicates a likelihood that the customer will purchase an item of each of the sample types;
selecting, by a customer choice executor based on the probability scores for each of the sample types, two or more samples;
causing presentation, by the customer choice executor via a display device to the
customer, of the two or more samples; receiving, at the customer choice executor via a user interface from the customer, a selection of at least one of the two or more samples; and
adding, by the purchase likelihood estimator to the customer's cart the at least one of the two or more samples. 51. The method of claim 50, wherein the purchase likelihood estimator and the customer choice executor are modules of a control circuit. 52. The method of claim 50, wherein the two or more samples includes X samples and the at least one of the two or more samples is Y samples, and wherein Y is less than X. 53. The method of claim 50, wherein each of the two or more samples have different types. 54. The method of claim 50, wherein each of the two or more samples have a same type. 55. The method of claim 50, wherein the purchase history includes online purchase history and in-store purchase history. 56. The method of claim 50, wherein the one or more samples from the one or more available sample types for each of the customers are added to the customer's carts free of charge. 57. The method of claim 50, further comprising:
receiving, by the purchase likelihood estimator from the customer via a user interface, an indication that the customer would not like the at least one of the two or more samples added to the customer's cart; and
removing, by the purchase likelihood estimator from the customer's cart, the at least one of the two or more samples. 58. The method of claim 50, wherein the at least one of the two or more samples is provided by a manufacturer.
</claims>
</document>
