<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/955,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
YOUNG, RYAN
MONCAYO, SILVANA PATRICIA
ANDREW, FELIX GERARD TORQUIL IFOR
KHUT, SOPHORS
NEDELCU, LAURENTIU TITI
STOCKWELL, William Christian Ross
MCMURRAY, Steven Michael
SUN, Yuxiao
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73016065
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT EXTRACTION OF WEB DATA BY CONTENT TYPE VIA AN INTEGRATED BROWSER EXPERIENCE
</title>

<abstract>
In non-limiting examples of the present disclosure, systems, methods and devices for collecting and surfacing web content are provided. Web content from a webpage may be displayed in a web browser. A type associated with the webpage may be identified. An indication to add a new section corresponding to the webpage to a content collection pane may be received. A plurality of elements on the webpage may be identified based on the identified type associated with the webpage. A subset of web content from the webpage corresponding to the plurality of elements may be extracted. The new section may be added to the content collection pane, wherein the new section comprises the subset of web content extracted from the webpage.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for collecting and surfacing web content, the method comprising:
displaying, in a web browser, web content from a webpage;
identifying a type associated with the webpage;
receiving an indication to add a new section corresponding to the webpage to a content collection pane integrated in the web browser;
identifying a plurality of elements on the webpage based on the identified type associated with the webpage;
extracting a subset of web content from the webpage corresponding to the plurality of elements; and
adding the new section to the content collection pane, wherein the new section comprises the subset of web content extracted from the webpage.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the type associated with the webpage comprises:
analyzing HTML for the webpage; and
determining a type of the webpage based on a schema included in the HTML.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the type associated with the webpage comprises applying a machine learning model that has been trained to identify webpage types to the webpage.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the type associated with the webpage comprises analyzing a uniform resource locator for the webpage.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the type associated with the webpage comprises:
providing a uniform resource locator for the webpage to a web search engine; and applying one or more machine learning models that have been trained to identify webpage types to one or more of: metadata associated with a search result; one or more images associated with a search result, and text associated with a search result.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the identified type is a product shopping type, and the plurality of elements comprise at least one of: a price element, a type of product element, a product image element, a name of product element, a product description element, and a product rating element.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the identified type is a flight booking type, and the plurality of elements comprise at least one of: a departure airport element, an arrival airport element, a layover element, an airline element, a flight duration element, a flight price element, and a date of travel element.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the identified type is a hotel booking type, and the plurality of elements comprise at least one of: a geographic location element, a hotel name element, a hotel image element, a type of room element, and a date of stay element.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the identified type is a restaurant type, and the plurality of elements comprise at least one of: a geographic location element, a restaurant name element, a menu image element, a food image element, a type of food element, and a price element.
10. A system for collecting and surfacing web content, comprising:
a memory for storing executable program code; and
one or more processors, functionally coupled to the memory, the one or more processors being responsive to computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to:
display, in a web browser, web content from a webpage;
identify a type associated with the webpage;
receive an indication to add a new section corresponding to the webpage to a content collection pane integrated in the web browser;
identify a plurality of elements on the webpage based on the identified type associated with the webpage;
extract a subset of web content from the webpage corresponding to the plurality of elements; and
add the new section to the content collection pane, wherein the new section comprises the subset of web content extracted from the webpage.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: analyze HTML for the webpage; and
determine a type of the webpage based on a schema included in the HTML.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein in identifying the type associated with the webpage, the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to:
apply a machine learning model that has been trained to identify webpage types to the webpage.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein in identifying the type associated with the webpage, the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to:
analyze a uniform resource locator for the webpage.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein in identifying the type associated with the webpage, the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to:
provide a uniform resource locator for the webpage to a web search engine; and apply one or more machine learning models that have been trained to identify webpage types to one or more of: metadata associated with a search result; one or more images associated with a search result; and text associated with a search result.
15. A computer-readable storage device comprising executable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, assists with collecting and surfacing web content, the computer-readable storage device including instructions executable by the one or more processors for:
displaying, in a web browser, web content from a webpage;
identifying a type associated with the webpage;
receiving an indication to add a new section corresponding to the webpage to a content collection pane integrated in the web browser;
identifying a plurality of elements on the webpage based on the identified type associated with the webpage;
extracting a subset of web content from the webpage corresponding to the plurality of elements; and
adding the new section to the content collection pane, wherein the new section comprises the subset of web content extracted from the webpage.
</claims>
</document>
