<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M16/08,A61M16/10,A61M16/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RESMED
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAURER, DIMITRI MARCO
DOUDKINE, DMITRI, ANATOLIEVICH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74061782
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TUBE DETECTION SYSTEMS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus may include: processing circuitry; a humidifier configured to humidify breathable gas; an air delivery tube configured to pass the humidified breathable gas to a patient interface, the air delivery tube including a heating element, a sensor configured to measure a property of the breathable gas, and a connector having a plurality of electrical tube contacts at least a portion of which are coupled to the heating element and the sensor; and a contact assembly including a plurality of electrical apparatus contacts configured to electrically couple the plurality of electrical tube contacts to the processing circuitry. The processing circuitry may be configured to determine a type of air delivery tube coupled to the humidifier based on (1) which electrical apparatus contacts are coupled to the heating element and/or the sensor, and/or (2) electrical characteristic measured via one or more electrical apparatus contacts.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for humidifying a flow of breathable gas, comprising:
processing circuitry;
a humidifier configured to humidify breathable gas;
an air delivery tube configured to pass the humidified breathable gas to a patient interface, the air delivery tube including one or more heating elements extending along at least a portion of the length of the air delivery tube, a sensor configured to measure a property of the humidified breathable gas in the air delivery tube, and a connector having a plurality of electrical tube contacts; and
a contact assembly including a plurality of electrical apparatus contacts configured to electrically couple the plurality of electrical tube contacts to the processing circuitry,
wherein the one or more heating elements and the sensor are coupled to the electrical tube contacts, and the electrical tube contacts are adapted to electrically engage only a portion of electrical apparatus contacts in an operative configuration of the apparatus.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to control, based on a signal received from the sensor, operation of the one or more heating elements and the humidifier, and determine, based on which electrical apparatus contacts of the contact assembly are coupled to the electrical tube contacts in the operative configuration of the apparatus, a type of the air delivery tube coupled to the apparatus.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine, based on which electrical apparatus contacts of the contact assembly are coupled to the electrical tube contacts in the operative configuration of the apparatus, a type of the air delivery tube coupled to the apparatus.
4. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to control, based on the determined type of air delivery tube, operation of the one or more heating elements and/or the humidifier.
5. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the type of the air delivery tube coupled to the apparatus based on absence of a connection by one or more electrical apparatus contacts to the heating element and/or the sensor.
6. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the contact assembly includes only four electrical apparatus contacts, a first pair of the electrical apparatus contacts are configured to electrically couple to the one or more heating elements, and only one contact of a second pair of electrical apparatus contacts is configured to electrically couple to the sensor.
7. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the processing circuitry determines the type of the air delivery tube coupled to the apparatus based which one of the second pair of electrical apparatus contacts is coupled to the sensor.
8. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the contact assembly includes only four electrical apparatus contacts, a first pair of the electrical apparatus contacts are configured to electrically couple to the one or more heating elements, and the processing circuit is configured to determine that a first type of air delivery tube is coupled to the apparatus when a first contact of a second pair of the electrical apparatus contacts is not coupled to the sensor, and determine that a second type of air delivery tube is coupled to the apparatus when a second contact of a second pair of the electrical apparatus contacts is not coupled to the sensor.
9. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the contact assembly includes only four electrical apparatus contacts and the air delivery tube includes only three electrical tube contacts configured to couple to the electrical apparatus contacts.
10. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine, based on which electrical apparatus contact of the contact assembly is not coupled to the electrical tube contacts, a type of the air delivery tube coupled to the apparatus.
11. An apparatus for humidifying a flow of breathable gas, comprising:
processing circuitry;
a humidifier configured to humidify breathable gas;
an air delivery tube configured to pass the humidified breathable gas to a patient interface, the air delivery tube including one or more heating elements extending along at least a portion of the length of the air delivery tube, a sensor configured to measure a property of the breathable gas in the air delivery tube, and a connector having a plurality of electrical tube contacts; and
a contact assembly including a plurality of electrical apparatus contacts configured to electrically couple to the plurality of electrical tube contacts to the processing circuitry in an operative configuration of the apparatus,
wherein the one or more heating elements and the sensor are coupled to a set of the electrical tube contacts configured to electrically couple to the corresponding electrical apparatus contacts in the operative configuration of the apparatus, and the processing circuit is configured to determine a type of air delivery tube coupled to the apparatus based on an electrical characteristic measured by the processing circuit via another electrical apparatus contact of the contact assembly.
12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to control, based on a signal received from the sensor, operation of the one or more heating elements and the humidifier.
13. The apparatus of any one of claims 11 or 12, wherein the measured characteristic includes a voltage set based on a resistive element disposed in the air deliver tube and coupled to the other electrical apparatus contact and an electrical tube contact configured to electrically couple to heating element and.
14. The apparatus of any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine that a first type of air delivery tube is coupled to the apparatus when the measured characteristic indicates zero volts and that a second type of air delivery tube is coupled to the apparatus when the measured characteristic indicates a voltage greater than zero.
15. The apparatus of any one of claims 11 to 14, wherein the air delivery tube includes a resistor or a shunt coupled between a contact of the set of the electrical tube contacts and an electrical tube contact configured to electrically couple to the other electrical apparatus contact.
16. The apparatus of any one of claims 11 to 15, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to control, based on the determined type of air delivery tube, operation of the one or more heating elements and the humidifier.
17. The apparatus of any one of claims 11 to 16, wherein the contact assembly includes only four electrical apparatus contacts and the air delivery tube includes only three electrical tube contacts configured to couple to the electrical apparatus contacts.
18. A respiratory treatment apparatus comprising :
a power supply;
a processing system;
a pressure generator configured to generate a flow of breathable gas;
a humidifier configured to store a supply of water to humidify the breathable gas and comprising a first heating element configured to heat the supply of water; an air delivery tube configured to pass the flow of breathable gas that has been humidified to a patient, the air delivery tube including second heating element configured to heat the humidified breathable gas in the air delivery tube and a thermistor configured go generate a temperate signal representing a temperature of the humidified breathable gas in the air delivery tube;
a transducer configured to generate a flow signal representing a property of the flow of breathable gas; and
a contact assembly configured to mechanically couple the air delivery tube to the humidifier and electrically couple a plurality of main contacts coupled to the processing system to a plurality of tube contacts coupled to the second heating element and the thermistor, wherein only a portion of the main contacts are coupled to corresponding tube contacts in an operative configuration of the respiratory treatment apparatus; the processing system configured to:
determine, based on signal values received from one or more main contacts, which of the main contacts are coupled to the second heating element and the thermistor via the tube contacts;
determine, based on which of the main contacts are determined to be coupled to the second heating element and the thermistor, a type of air delivery tube coupled to the humidifier; and
based on the determined tube type, the flow signal and the temperate signal, determine (1) a first control signal for controlling the first heating element (2) a second control signal for controlling the second heating element, and (3) a third control signal for controlling the pressure generator.
19. The respiratory treatment apparatus of claim 18, wherein the contact assembly includes two main contacts configured to electrically coupled to two tube contacts coupled to the second heating element, and two additional main contacts configured to couple to two additional tube contact of which only one is coupled to the thermistor, and the processing system is configured to determine the type of air delivery tube coupled to the humidifier based on which one of the two additional main contacts is coupled to the thermistor via the tube contact.
</claims>
</document>
