<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/44,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FINNING INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLAKE, ANTHONY VINCENT
OSPINO COSTA, BENJAMIN ROLANDO
VALENZUELA RODRIGUEZ, CLAUDIO ANTONIO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70773037
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DATA-DRIVEN PROCESS IMPROVEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus for implementing a data processing pipeline for machine condition monitoring and other applications is provided. The apparatus comprises data processing modules communicatively coupled in series, including plug-in modules configured to receive input data, and produce output data, at least some of which is used by at least one downstream improvement system to carry out remedial actions. The apparatus also comprises a data access layer configured to receive data and make it available in a unified data format to downstream data processing modules and the at least one downstream improvement system. The data access layer comprises an enterprise service bus, and a data unification processor to convert the input data to unified data objects and make these accessible to the plug-in modules and the at least one downstream improvement system via the bus.
</abstract>

<claims>
1 . Apparatus for implementing a data processing pipeline for management of a construction project and/or civil engineering project, the apparatus comprising:
a plurality of data processing modules communicatively coupled in series, comprising a plurality of plug-in processing modules configured to receive input data objects and, based at least in part on the input data objects, produce output data objects, wherein at least some of the output data objects are used by at least one downstream improvement system to carry out remedial actions; and
a data access layer configured to receive output data from the plurality of plug-in data processing modules and input data from at least one data source, and make the input data and the output data available in a unified data format to
downstream data processing modules and the at least one downstream improvement system. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the data access layer comprises an enterprise service bus communicatively coupled to each of the plurality of plug-in processing modules and each of the at least one downstream improvement system, and wherein the plurality of plug-in processing modules provides a diagnostic portion of the data processing pipeline, and the enterprise service bus is configured to integrate the diagnostic portion of the data processing pipeline with the at least one downstream improvement system.
3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the data access layer comprises a data unification processor configured to convert the input data to a plurality of unified data objects and make the unified data objects accessible to the plurality of plug-in processing modules and the at least one downstream improvement system via the enterprise service bus.
4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the data access layer comprises one or more filtering components configured to selectively make at least a portion of the input data available for conversion to unified data objects by the data unification processor.
5. The apparatus of any one of claims 2 to 4 wherein the data access layer comprises an output moderator configured to aggregate output data from the plurality of plug-in processing modules, and implement a conflict resolution process if a conflict is detected in the aggregate output data.
6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the data access layer is configured to receive baseline reference data comprising baseline intelligence and/or configuration data, the baseline reference data made available to the plurality of plug-in processing modules via the enterprise service bus.
7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the output moderator is configured to adjust the baseline reference data to reduce the likelihood of conflict in output data from the plurality of plug-in processing modules.
8. The apparatus of any one of claims 5 to 7 wherein the output moderator is configured to aggregate output data into hierarchies to produce higher level outputs, such as by roll-up of condition indicators across multiple asset components. 9. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein the data access layer comprises a notification generator configured to generate a notification based at least in part on output data objects that are pushed onto the enterprise service bus which satisfy certain conditions. 10. The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein the plurality of plug-in processing modules comprises a data shaping module configured to process raw data and generate condition and key performance indicators based on the raw data, wherein each of the condition and key performance indicators comprises one or more of: a metric of a condition of an asset or process, attributes such as source data, processing descriptions and statistics, and audit information that can be used by the next step to assist in its subsequent use and interrogation.
11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the plurality of plug-in processing modules comprises a diagnosis/prognosis module configured to receive condition and key performance indicators generated by the data shaping module, and based at least in part on the condition and key performance indicators, generate fault objects, each of the fault objects comprising one or more of: a description or identification of the likely fault, confidence factor, weighted associated root cause, residual life estimate, meta-data about the method and explanation of how the conclusion was reached and a trace back to the underlying condition indications.
12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the plurality of plug-in processing modules comprises a remedial action recommendation module configured to receive fault objects generated by the diagnosis/prognosis module, and based at least in part on the fault objects, generate remedial action objects, each of the remedial action objects
comprising one or more of: a description or identification of the action that should to be taken to solve or prevent an issue, a priority and time-window within which the action should take place, an explanation tracing from data to condition insights to fault and root case, and domain specific properties for use by the at least one downstream
improvement system.
13. A method for implementing a data processing pipeline for management of a construction project and/or civil engineering project, the method comprising:
providing a plurality of plug-in processing modules configured to receive input data objects and, based at least in part on the input data objects, produce output data objects, wherein at least some of the output data objects are used by at least one downstream improvement system to carry out remedial actions;
receiving data from at least one data source and the plurality of plug-in data processing modules;
processing the data into data objects having a unified data format; and making the data objects in the unified data format available to downstream data processing modules and the at least one downstream improvement system.
14. The method of claim 13 comprising communicatively coupling an enterprise service bus to each of the plurality of plug-in processing modules and each of the at least one downstream improvement system and integrating the plurality of plug-in processing modules and the at least one downstream improvement system via the enterprise service bus.
15. The method of claim 14 comprising converting the input data to a plurality of unified data objects and making the unified data objects accessible to the plurality of plug-in processing modules and the at least one downstream improvement system via the enterprise service bus.
16. The method of claim 15 comprising filtering the input data prior to converting the input data to unified data objects.
17. The method of any one of claims 14 to 16 comprising aggregating the output data from the plurality of plug-in processing modules, and implementing a conflict resolution process if a conflict is detected in the aggregate output data.
18. The method of claim 17 comprising receiving baseline reference data, the baseline reference data comprising baseline intelligence and/or configuration data, and making the baseline reference data available to the plurality of plug-in processing modules via the enterprise service bus.
19. The method of claim 18 comprising adjusting the baseline reference data to reduce the likelihood of conflict in output data from the plurality of plug-in processing modules.
20. The method of any one of claims 17 to 19 comprising aggregating output data into hierarchies to produce higher level outputs, such as by roll-up of condition indicators across multiple asset components.
21. The method of any one of claims 13 to 20 comprising generating a notification based at least in part on output data objects that are pushed onto the enterprise service bus which satisfy certain conditions.
22. The method of any one of claims 13 to 20 wherein the plurality of plug-in processing modules comprises a data shaping module configured to process raw data and generate condition and key performance indicators based on the raw data, wherein each of the condition and key performance indicators comprises one or more of: a metric of a condition of an asset or task process, attributes such as source data, processing descriptions and statistics, and audit information that can be used by the next step to assist in its subsequent use and interrogation.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein the plurality of plug-in processing modules comprises a diagnosis/prognosis module configured to receive condition and key performance indicators generated by the data shaping module, and based at least in part on the condition and key performance indicators, generate fault objects, each of the fault objects comprising one or more of: a description or identification of the likely fault, confidence factor, weighted associated root cause, residual life estimate, meta-data about the method and explanation of how the conclusion was reached and a trace back to the underlying condition indications.
24. The method of claim 23 wherein the plurality of plug-in processing modules comprises a remedial action recommendation module configured to receive fault objects generated by the diagnosis/prognosis module, and based at least in part on the fault objects, generate remedial action objects, each of the remedial action objects
comprising one or more of: a description or identification of the action that should to be taken to solve or prevent an issue, a priority and time-window within which the action should take place, an explanation tracing from data to condition insights to fault and root case, and domain specific properties for use by the at least one downstream
improvement system.
25. Apparatus having any new and inventive feature, combination of features, or sub-combination of features as described herein.
26. Methods having any new and inventive steps, acts, combination of steps and/or acts or sub-combination of steps and/or acts as described herein.
</claims>
</document>
