<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B65G1/137,G06Q30/06,H04N1/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FFF ENTERPRISES
</assignee>

<inventors>
REID, KENNETH SHAY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71517743
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STORAGE DEVICES AND OPERATION METHODS THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
A cabinet that has manually reconfigurable shelves, that can automatically detect the configuration of compartments in a shelf, and that can automatically detect if a user is accessing or restocking the right compartment is contemplated. The shelf can be reconfigured using one or more dividers to divide the shelf into two or more compartments. The compartments can have different sizes and store different items. The compartments can be physically reconfigured by the user and the cabinet can automatically detect the specifics of the reconfiguration and adjust compartment size and availability. A surface of the shelf includes a plurality of visual markers. The cabinet has cameras mounted to it and uses visual markers to determine if a compartment contains an item and other information.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A cabinet comprising:
a drawer comprising a volume to store items, one or more dividers that divide the volume into a plurality of nests, and a wall enclosing the dividers and the nests, wherein the wall extends upward from a bottom surface of the drawer and comprises a top surface including a plurality of visual markers; and
an imaging and spatial determination system including a processor and memory storing computer executable instructions, and a camera, wherein execution of the instructions in the memory causes the processor to:
record, via the camera, a first image of the drawer when the drawer is open, the first image including the visual markers, determine if the drawer is partially open or fully open using the visual markers in the first image, and determine first content information of the drawer from the first image.
2. The cabinet of claim 1 wherein the imaging and spatial determination system is further comprising being configured to:
record, via the camera, a second image of the drawer, and determine second content information of the drawer from the second image; and
compare the first image and the second image and determine if there is a difference between the images and update content information of the drawer based on the comparison.
3. The cabinet of claim 1, wherein the system further includes a database storing distance information of the plurality of visual markers and the distance information represents how far the drawer is open.
4. The cabinet of claim 1, wherein the plurality of visual markers are QR codes.
5. The cabinet of claim 1, wherein the plurality of visual markers include a QR code configured to indicate the drawer is 6 cm open upon recording the first image.
6. The cabinet of claim 1, wherein the plurality of visual markers include a QR code configured to indicate which drawer in the cabinet is open upon recording the first image.
7. The cabinet of claim 1, wherein the wall has a height of 3 inches and the distance between the top surface of the wall and the bottom surface of the drawer is 3 inches.
8. The cabinet of claim 1, wherein the drawer is configured to store items to be scanned by an optical scanner and the cabinet further comprises another drawer configured to store items from the first drawer scanned by the optical scanner.
9. The cabinet of claim 8, wherein the cabinet further comprises a user interface and the execution of the instructions in the memory further causes the processor to:
communicate, via the user interface, to a user an option to select an item stored in the drawer and identify an item from the drawer scanned by the optical scanner as a scanned item.
10. The cabinet of claim 9, wherein the execution of the instructions in the memory further causes the processor to:
receive, via the user interface, a user selection to obtain an item from the cabinet, determine whether the item to be obtained is available in the drawer or the other drawer, and communicate, via the user interface, to the user that the item to be obtained is available in the other drawer when the item to be obtained is available in both the drawer and the other drawer.
11. The cabinet of claim 10, wherein the execution of the instructions in the memory further causes the processor to:
communicate, via the user interface, to the user to retrieve the item to be obtained from the drawer when the step of determining determines that the item is unavailable in the other drawer, and identify the retrieved item after scanning by the optical scanner as a scanned item.
12. A cabinet comprising:
a first drawer configured to store items to be scanned by an optical scanner; a second drawer configured to store items from the first drawer scanned by the optical scanner;
wherein the first drawer and second drawer comprise a volume to store items, one or more surfaces of the first drawer including a plurality of visual markers, and one or more dividers that divide the volume into a plurality of nests; and
an imaging and spatial determination system including a processor and memory storing computer executable instructions, a user interface, and a camera, wherein execution of the instructions in the memory causes the processor to: communicate, via the user interface, to a user an option to select an item stored in the first drawer and identify an item from the first drawer scanned by the optical scanner as a scanned item;
receive, via the user interface, a user selection to obtain an item from the cabinet, determine whether the item to be obtained is available in the first drawer or the second drawer, and communicate, via the user interface, to the user that the item to be obtained is available in the second drawer when the item to be obtained is available in both the first drawer and the second drawer; communicate, via the user interface, to the user to retrieve the item to be obtained from the first drawer when the step of determining determines that the item is unavailable in the second drawer, and identify the retrieved item after scanning by the optical scanner as a scanned item;
make the second drawer available to the user to store the identified item; record, via the camera, a first image of the first drawer or the second drawer when that drawer is open, the first image including the visual markers, determine if that drawer is partially open or fully open using the visual markers in the first image, and determine first content information of that drawer from the first image;
record, via the camera, a second image of the same drawer in the first image, and determine second content information of that drawer from the second image; and
compare the first image and the second image and determine if there is a difference between the images and update content information of that drawer based on the comparison.
13. The cabinet of claim 12, wherein the one or more surfaces of the drawer including a plurality of visual markers comprises walls of the drawer.
14. The cabinet of claim 13, wherein the walls of the drawer include a color that is different from a bottom surface of the drawer.
15. The cabinet of claim 14, wherein the color difference allows the system to detect that a drawer is in the first image and the second image and determine the first content information and the second content information in the first image and the second image.
16. The cabinet of claim 12, wherein the plurality of visual markers include a QR code configured to indicate the drawer is 6 cm open upon recording the first image.
17. The cabinet of claim 12, wherein the plurality of visual markers include a QR code configured to indicate which drawer in the cabinet is open upon recording the first image.
18. The cabinet of claim 12, wherein the system is configured to display a drawer configuration of the first drawer or the second drawer through the user interface upon recording the first image.
19. The cabinet of claim 18, wherein the system is further configured to display an identifier for each nest in the drawer configuration displayed on the user interface upon recording the first image.
20. The cabinet of claim 12, wherein the system further includes a database storing distance information of the plurality of visual markers.
21. The cabinet of claim 12, wherein the cabinet is configured to operate in a mode that relies on a backup battery and a keypad to unlock a door of the cabinet when the primary source of power is unavailable and to update inventory information of the cabinet when the primary source of power becomes available again, and wherein the updated inventory information includes what items and the number of items that haven been taken out from or inserted into the drawers.
</claims>
</document>
