<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERINT AMERICAS
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG HONG
ZHOU, Charles
FONG, Andrew
SHRINEVAS, Bharat
POTINENI, Teja
HEMAKUMAR, Saranya
DZIRI, Anouar
DRIDI, Abdel
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70476586
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ANOMALY DETECTION AND SEGMENT ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems (205) and methods (300; 400) are described to determine anomalies and identify segments (231) associated with the anomalies (222). Surveys (136) are collected over a period of time to create historical data (221). The surveys include questions related to customer experience ('CX') and questions that can be used to divide the customers into one or more segments. When a survey is received from a customer, the scores of the survey are compared with scores of the historical data (and other currently received scores) to determine if the scores associated with a survey are associated with an anomaly. Once an anomaly is detected, the segments associated with the surveys corresponding to the anomaly are analyzed to determine which segments are associated with the anomaly. The determined segments can be used to correct, solve, or explain the anomaly.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for identifying segments associated with anomalies based on survey results comprising:
generating a survey by a computing device, wherein the survey comprises a plurality of questions and one or more of the questions are associated with segments of a plurality of segments;
providing the generated survey to a plurality of customers by the computer device; receiving responses from one or more customers of the plurality of customers by the computing device, wherein each received response includes scores for one or more questions of the plurality of questions;
based on the scores included in each received response, detecting an anomaly with respect to a subset of the received responses by the computing device; and
based on the responses in the subset of the received responses, determining segments of the plurality of segments that are associated with the detected anomaly by the computing device.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a report including the determined anomaly and the determined segments of the plurality of segments.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of questions comprises one or more of questions related to drivers, questions related to satisfaction, and questions related to future behaviors.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving historical data related to previous surveys; and
detecting the anomaly with respect to the subset of the received responses based of the received historical data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the anomaly with respect to the subset of the received responses comprises detecting received responses with scores that are outside of a confidence interval.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the segments of the plurality of segments segment the plurality of customers into a plurality of groups.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a report for each segment of the plurality of segments, wherein the report for a segment includes scores for the responses associated with the segment.
8. A system for identifying segments associated with anomalies based on survey results comprising:
at least one processor; and
a non-tangible computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to:
generate a survey, wherein the survey comprises a plurality of questions and one or more of the questions are associated with segments of a plurality of segments;
provide the generated survey to a plurality of customers;
receive responses from one or more customers of the plurality of customers, wherein each received response includes scores for one or more questions of the plurality of questions; based on the scores included in each received response, detect an anomaly with respect to a subset of the received responses; and
based on the responses in the subset of the received responses, determine segments of the plurality of segments that are associated with the detected anomaly.
9. The system of claim 8, further comprising instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to:
generate a report including the determined anomaly and the determined segments of the plurality of segments.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of questions comprises one or more of questions related to drivers, questions related to satisfaction, and questions related to future behaviors.
11. The system of claim 8, further comprising instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to:
receive historical data related to previous surveys; and
detect the anomaly with respect to the subset of the received responses based of the received historical data.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein detecting the anomaly with respect to the subset of the received responses comprises detecting received responses with scores that are outside of a confidence interval.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the segments of the plurality of segments segment the plurality of customers into a plurality of groups.
14. The system of claim 8, further comprising instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to:
generate a report for each segment of the plurality of segments, wherein the report for a segment includes scores for the responses associated with the segment.
15. A non-tangible computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to:
generate a survey, wherein the survey comprises a plurality of questions and one or more of the questions are associated with segments of a plurality of segments;
provide the generated survey to a plurality of customers;
receive responses from one or more customers of the plurality of customers, wherein each received response includes scores for one or more questions of the plurality of questions; based on the scores included in each received response, detect an anomaly with respect to a subset of the received responses; and
based on the responses in the subset of the received responses, determine segments of the plurality of segments that are associated with the detected anomaly.
16. The computer readable medium of claim 15, further comprising instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to:
generate a report including the determined anomaly and the determined segments of the plurality of segments.
17. The computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the plurality of questions comprises one or more of questions related to drivers, questions related to satisfaction, and questions related to future behaviors.
18. The computer readable medium of claim 15, further comprising instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to:
receive historical data related to previous surveys; and
detect the anomaly with respect to the subset of the received responses based of the received historical data.
19. The computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein detecting the anomaly with respect to the subset of the received responses comprises detecting received responses with scores that are outside of a confidence interval.
20. The computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the segments of the plurality of segments segment the plurality of customers into a plurality of groups.
</claims>
</document>
