<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
WISEMAN, LEORA
COHEN, Sarel
ROYZ, Moriah
GREENBERG, Merav
PETREANU, Yigal
MUKHIN, Ruslan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69182685
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING NAVIGATION ROUTES AND IDENTIFYING CARPOOLING OPTIONS IN VIEW OF CALCULATED TRADE-OFFS BETWEEN PARAMETERS
</title>

<abstract>
A technique for generating navigation routes includes obtaining route data indicative of multiple routes between respective starting locations and destinations, previously traversed by a user (702). The technique further includes identifying, using map data, route segments of a first type and at least one other type within the multiple routes, to generate route segment data (704) and determining, using the route data and the route segment data, a quantitative metric to measure a trade-off between a property of route segments of the first type route and a property of route segments of the at least one other type in selection of navigation routes by the user (706). After an indication of a starting location and a destination is received (708), the technique includes generating a navigation route between the starting location and the destination for the user, including applying the quantitative metric to constrain selections of route segments (710).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating navigation routes, the method comprising:
obtaining, by processing hardware, route data indicative of a plurality of routes between respective starting locations and destinations, previously traversed by a user;
identifying, by the processing hardware using map data, route segments of a first type and at least one other type within the plurality of routes, to generate route segment data; determining, by the processing hardware using the route data and the route segment data, a quantitative metric to measure a trade-off between a first property of the route segments of the first type route and a second property of route segments of the at least one other type in selection of navigation routes by the user;
receiving, by the processing hardware, an indication of a starting location and a destination; and
generating, by the processing hardware a navigation route between the starting location and the destination for the user, including applying the quantitative metric to constrain selections of route segments
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the quantitative metric includes determining an amount of time by which a first route the user travelled between a pair of locations differs from a second route the user travelled between the pair of locations, wherein the first route includes route segments of the first type and the second route does not include route segments of the second type.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, further comprising:
receiving, by the processing hardware, a time constraint parameter indicative of a time by which the user must arrive at the destination;
wherein generating the navigation route includes applying the time constraint parameter to further constrain selections of route segments.
4. The method of any of the preceding claims, further comprising:
receiving, by the processing hardware, a carpooling parameter indicative of whether carpooling is available to the user between the starting location and the destination;
wherein generating the navigation route includes applying the carpooling parameter to further constrain selections of route segments
5. The method of any of the preceding claims, further comprising: receiving, by the processing hardware, a time-of-travel parameter indicative of a time at which the user is to travel between the starting location and the destination;
wherein generating the navigation route includes applying the time-of-travel parameter to further constrain selections of route segments
6. The method of any of the preceding claims, further comprising:
training, by the processing hardware, a machine learning model using the route data and the route segment data, the machine learning model configured to generate candidate routes between specified locations.
7. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein determining the quantitative metric includes:
providing, via a user interface of a computing device, an interactive control to specify the trade-off between route segments of the first type and route segments of the at least one other type; and
receiving the quantitative metric via the interactive control provided in the user interface,
8. The method of any of the preceding claims, further comprising:
in response to determining that the route data is insufficient for determining the quantitative metric without additional data, determining the quantitative metric further using indications of other users' preferences regarding the first property and the second property, for routes between the starting location and the destination.
9. A computing system comprising:
one or more processors; and
a computer-readable memory storing thereon instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing system to:
obtain route data indicative of a plurality of routes between respective starting locations and destinations, previously traversed by a user,
identify, using map data, route segments of a first type and at least one other type within the plurality of routes, to generate route segment data,
determine, using the route data and the route segment data, a quantitative metric to measure a trade-off between a first property of the route segments of the first type route and a second property of route segments of the at least one other type in selection of navigation routes by the user,
receive an indication of a starting location and a destination, and generate a navigation route between the starting location and the destination for the user including applying the quantitative metric to constrain selections of route segments.
10. The computing system of claim 9, wherein to determine the quantitative metric, the instructions cause the system to determine an amount of time by which a first route the user travelled between a pair of locations differs from a second route the user travelled between the pair of locations, wherein the first route includes route segments of the first type and the second route does not include route segments of the second type.
11. The computing system of claim 8 or 9, wherein the instructions further cause the system to:
receive a time constraint parameter indicative of a time by which the user must arrive at the destination, and
to generate the navigation route, the instructions cause the system to apply the time constraint parameter to further constrain selections of route segments.
12. The computing system of any of claims 9-11, wherein the instructions cause the system to:
receive a carpooling parameter indicative of whether carpooling is available to the user between the starting location and the destination, and
wherein to generate the navigation route, the instructions cause the system to apply the carpooling parameter to further constrain selections of route segments.
13. The computing system of any of claims 9-12, wherein the instructions further cause the system to:
receive a time-of-travel parameter indicative of a time at which the user is to travel between the starting location and the destination,
wherein to generate the navigation route, the instructions apply the time-of-travel parameter to further constrain selections of route segments.
14. The computing system of any of claims 9-13, wherein the instructions further cause the system to:
train a machine learning model using the route data and the route segment data, the machine learning model configured to generate candidate routes between specified locations.
15. The computing system of any of claims 9-14, wherein to determine the quantitative metric, the instructions cause the system to:
provide, via a user interface of a computing device, an interactive control to specify the trade-off between route segments of the first type and route segments of the at least one other type; and
receive the quantitative metric via the interactive control provided in the user interface.
</claims>
</document>
