<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/024,A61B5/05,A61B5/08,A61B5/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
DIXON, MICHAEL
PATEL, SHWETAK
PATHAK, ANUPAM
BARBELLO, BRANDON
SHIN, DONGEEK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66655454
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SLEEP TRACKING AND VITAL SIGN MONITORING USING LOW POWER RADIO WAVES
</title>

<abstract>
Various arrangements for performing radar-based measurement of vital signs. Waveform data may be received then filtered of data indicative of static objects to obtain motion-indicative waveform data. The motion-indicative waveform data may be analyzed to determine one or more frequencies of movement present within the motion-indicative waveform data. A spectral analysis may be performed on the motion-indicative waveform data to determine a spectral-analysis state of a monitored region. The spectral-analysis state of the monitored region may be determined to match a predefined spectral-analysis state during which vital sign monitoring is permitted. One or more vital signs of a monitored user present within the monitored region may be determined and output based on analyzing the motion-indicative waveform data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A smart-home device that performs radar-based measurement of vital signs, the smart-home device comprising:
a housing;
an RF emitter located within the housing;
an RF receiver located within the housing;
a radar processing circuit located within the housing that processes data received from the RF receiver and outputs raw waveform data;
a processing system, comprising one or more processors, that is in communication with the radar processing circuit, the processing system being configured to:
receive the raw waveform data from the radar processing circuit;
filter, from the waveform data, waveform data indicative of static objects to obtain motion-indicative waveform data;
analyze the motion-indicative waveform data to determine one or more frequencies of movement present within the motion-indicative waveform data;
determine one or more vital signs of a monitored user present within the monitored region based on analyzing the motion-indicative waveform data;
perform spectral analysis on the motion-indicative waveform data to determine a spectral-analysis state of a monitored region;
determine that vital sign monitoring is permitted for the spectral -analysis state of the monitored region; and
in response to determining that the spectral -analysis state of the monitored region is permitted, output the one or more determined vital signs of the monitored user.
2. The smart-home device that performs radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 1, wherein the RF emitter emits frequency-modulated continuous-wave (FMCW) radar.
3. The smart-home device that performs radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 1, wherein the processing system is further configured to:
filter the one or more frequencies to sum harmonics of the one or more frequencies caused by the one or more vital signs.
4. The smart-home device that performs radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 1, wherein the processing system being configured to determine that the spectral - analysis state of the monitored region matches the spectral-analysis state during which vital sign monitoring is permitted comprises the processing system being further configured to use a neural network to analyze the spectral-analysis state of the monitored region.
5. The smart-home device that performs radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 1, wherein the smart-home device is a smartphone.
6. The smart-home device that performs radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 5, further comprising:
a smartphone charger stand, wherein the smartphone is docked with the smartphone charger stand such that a radar sensor of the smartphone is pointed to emit radio waves at a location where the monitored user will be sleeping.
7. The smart-home device that performs radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 5, wherein the smartphone is placed under a sleeping location such that a radar sensor of the smartphone is pointed to emit radio waves at the sleeping location where the monitored user will be sleeping.
8. The smart-home device that performs radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 1, wherein the one or more vital signs comprises a breathing rate.
9. The smart-home device that performs radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 8, wherein the one or more vital signs comprises a heartrate.
10. A method for radar-based measurement of vital signs, the method comprising:
receiving, by a smart-home device, waveform data based on received radio waves; filtering, from the waveform data, waveform data indicative of static objects to obtain motion-indicative waveform data;
analyzing the motion-indicative waveform data to determine one or more frequencies of movement present within the motion-indicative waveform data;
determining one or more vital signs of a monitored user present within the monitored region based on analyzing the motion-indicative waveform data;
performing spectral analysis on the motion-indicative waveform data to determine a spectral-analysis state of a monitored region;
determining that the spectral-analysis state of the monitored region matches a predefined spectral-analysis state during which vital sign monitoring is permitted; and in response to determining that the spectral -analysis state of the monitored region matches the spectral-analysis state during which vital sign monitoring is permitted, recording the one or more determined vital signs of the monitored user.
11. The method for radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 10, wherein the emitted radio waves are emitted as part of frequency-modulated continuous-wave (FMCW) radar.
12. The method for radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 10, further comprising:
filtering the one or more frequencies to sum harmonics of the one or more frequencies caused by the one or more vital signs to one or more fundamental frequencies of the one or more vital signs.
13. The method for radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 10, wherein determining that the spectral-analysis state of the monitored region matches the spectral-analysis state during which vital sign monitoring is permitted comprises using artificial intelligence to analyze the spectral-analysis state of the monitored region.
14. The method for radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 10, further comprising emitting, by the smart-home device, radio waves at a monitored region.
15. The method for radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 14, wherein the smart-home device is a smartphone.
16. The method for radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 15, further comprising:
docking the smartphone with a charger stand such that a radar sensor of the smartphone is pointed to emit radio waves at a location where the monitored user will be sleeping.
17. The method for radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 15, further comprising:
placing the smartphone under a sleeping location such that a radar sensor of the smartphone is pointed to emit radio waves at the sleeping location where the monitored user will be sleeping.
18. The method for radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 10, wherein the one or more vital signs comprises a breathing rate.
19. The method for radar-based measurement of vital signs of claim 18, wherein the one or more vital signs comprises a heartrate.
20. A non-transitory processor-readable medium comprising processor-readable instructions configured to cause one or more processors to:
receive raw waveform data;
filter, from the waveform data, waveform data indicative of static objects to obtain motion-indicative waveform data;
analyze the motion-indicative waveform data to determine one or more frequencies of movement present within the motion-indicative waveform data;
determine one or more vital signs of a monitored user present within the monitored region based on analyzing the motion-indicative waveform data;
perform spectral analysis on the motion-indicative waveform data to determine a spectral-analysis state of a monitored region;
determine that the spectral-analysis state of the monitored region matches a predefined spectral-analysis state during which vital sign monitoring is permitted; and
in response to determining that the spectral -analysis state of the monitored region matches the spectral-analysis state during which vital sign monitoring is permitted, output the one or more determined vital signs of the monitored user.
</claims>
</document>
