<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/32,G06F9/44,G06F9/46,G06F9/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG, WEIFENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72917188
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTATION GRAPH MAPPING IN HETEROGENEOUS COMPUTER SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to a method for scheduling a computation graph on heterogeneous computing resources. The method comprises generating an augmented computation graph that includes a first set of replica nodes corresponding to a first node in the computation graph and a second set of replica nodes corresponding to a second node in the computation graph, wherein the replica nodes of the first set are connected by edges to the replica nodes of the second set according to dependency between the first node and the second node in the computation graph, adapting the augmented computation graph to include performance values for the edges, the replica nodes of the first set, and the replica nodes of the second set, and determining a path across the adapted computation graph via one replica node of the first set and one replica node of the second set based on the performance values.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for scheduling a computation graph on heterogeneous computing resources, the method comprising:
generating an augmented computation graph that includes a first set of replica nodes corresponding to a first node in the computation graph and a second set of replica nodes corresponding to a second node in the computation graph, wherein the replica nodes of the first set are connected by edges to the replica nodes of the second set according to dependency between the first node and the second node in the computation graph, and wherein each of the first set of replica nodes and each of the second set of replica nodes is associated with at least one computing resource of the heterogeneous computing resources; adapting the augmented computation graph to include performance values for the edges, the replica nodes of the first set, and the replica nodes of the second set; and
determining a path across the adapted computation graph via one replica node of the first set and one replica node of the second set based on the performance values.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein a number of the replica nodes in the first set corresponds to a number of potential target devices for executing an operation of the first node in the heterogeneous computing resources.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the potential target devices are selected from a plurality of target devices in the heterogeneous computing resources.
4. The method of claim 2 or 3, wherein each of the replica nodes in the first set represents that the operation of the first node is assigned to corresponding each of the potential target devices. 5. The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the performance values include a data transfer time corresponding to an edge among the edges and an execution time corresponding to a replica node among the replica nodes of the first set.
6. The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the adapted computation graph includes an initial node and a final node that are added to a front end and an end of the augmented computation graph when adapting the augmented computation graph.
7. The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the path is determined based on comparison of sums of performance values along possible paths across the adapted computation graph.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
allocating target devices in the heterogeneous computing resources for executing an operation of the first node and an operation of the second node according to the determined path.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein a target device corresponding to the one replica node of the first set is assigned for executing the operation of the first node and a target device corresponding to the one replica node of the second set is assigned for executing the operation of the second node.
10. An apparatus for scheduling a computation graph on heterogeneous computing resources, the apparatus comprising: a memory storing a set of instructions; and
one or more processors configured to execute the set of instructions to cause the apparatus to perform:
generating an augmented computation graph that includes a first set of replica nodes corresponding to a first node in the computation graph and a second set of replica nodes corresponding to a second node in the computation graph, wherein the replica nodes of the first set are connected by edges to the replica nodes of the second set according to dependency between the first node and the second node in the computation graph, and wherein each of the first set of replica nodes and each of the second set of replica nodes is associated with at least one computing resource of the heterogeneous computing resources;
adapting the augmented computation graph to include performance values for the edges, the replica nodes of the first set, and the replica nodes of the second set; and
determining a path across the adapted computation graph via one replica node of the first set and one replica node of the second set based on the performance values.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein a number of the replica nodes in the first set corresponds to a number of potential target devices for executing an operation of the first node in the heterogeneous computing resources.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the potential target devices are selected from a plurality of target devices in the heterogeneous computing resources.
13. The apparatus of claim 11 or 12, wherein each of the replica nodes in the first set represents that the operation of the first node is assigned to corresponding each of the potential target devices.
14. The apparatus of any one of claims 10-13, wherein the performance values include a data transfer time corresponding to an edge among the edges and an execution time corresponding to a replica node among the replica nodes of the first set.
15. The apparatus of any one of claims 10-14, wherein the adapted computation graph includes an initial node and a final node that are added to a front end and an end of the augmented computation graph when adapting the augmented computation graph.
16. The apparatus of any one of claims 10-15, wherein the path is determined based on comparison of sums of performance values along possible paths across the adapted computation graph.
17. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the one or more processors are configured to execute the set of instructions to cause the apparatus to further perform:
allocating target devices in the heterogeneous computing resources for executing an operation of the first node and an operation of the second node according to the determined path.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein a target device corresponding to the one replica node of the first set is assigned for executing the operation of the first node and a target device corresponding to the one replica node of the second set is assigned for executing the operation of the second node.
19. A non-transitory computer readable medium that stores a set of instructions that is executable by at least one processor of a computing device to cause the computing device to perform a method for scheduling a computation graph on heterogeneous computing resources, the method comprising:
generating an augmented computation graph that includes a first set of replica nodes corresponding to a first node in the computation graph and a second set of replica nodes corresponding to a second node in the computation graph, wherein the replica nodes of the first set are connected by edges to the replica nodes of the second set according to dependency between the first node and the second node in the computation graph, and wherein each of the first set of replica nodes and each of the second set of replica nodes is associated with at least one computing resource of the heterogeneous computing resources; adapting the augmented computation graph to include performance values for the edges, the replica nodes of the first set, and the replica nodes of the second set; and
determining a path across the adapted computation graph via one replica node of the first set and one replica node of the second set based on the performance values.
20. The computer readable medium of claim 19, wherein a number of the replica nodes in the first set corresponds to a number of potential target devices for executing an operation of the first node in the heterogeneous computing resources.
21. The computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein the potential target devices are selected from a plurality of target devices in the heterogeneous computing resources.
22. The computer readable medium of claim 20 or 21, wherein each of the replica nodes in the first set represents that the operation of the first node is assigned to
corresponding each of the potential target devices.
23. The computer readable medium of any one of claims 19-22, wherein the performance values include a data transfer time corresponding to an edge among the edges and an execution time corresponding to a replica node among the replica nodes of the first set.
24. The computer readable medium of any one of claims 19-23, wherein the adapted computation graph includes an initial node and a final node that are added to a front end and an end of the augmented computation graph when adapting the augmented computation graph.
25. The computer readable medium of any one of claims 19-24, wherein the path is determined based on comparison of sums of performance values along possible paths across the adapted computation graph.
26. The computer readable medium of claim 19, wherein the set of instructions that is executable by at least one processor of the computing device to cause the computing device to further perform:
allocating target devices in the heterogeneous computing resources for executing an operation of the first node and an operation of the second node according to the determined path.
27. The computer readable medium of claim 26, wherein a target device corresponding to the one replica node of the first set is assigned for executing the operation of the first node and a target device corresponding to the one replica node of the second set is assigned for executing the operation of the second node.
</claims>
</document>
