<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/48,G01N33/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
</assignee>

<inventors>
NIVALA, JEFFREY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70055519
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REPORTER CONSTRUCTS FOR NANOPORE-BASED DETECTION OF BIOLOGICAL ACTIVITY
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure provides fusion reporter protein constructs and related compositions, systems, and methods for nanopore-based detection biological activity. In one aspect, the disclosure provides a fusion reporter protein comprising, in order: a blocking domain with a stably folded tertiary structure; a flexible analyte domain; and a flexible tail domain, wherein the flexible tail domain has a net negative charge. The disclosure also provides nucleic acid constructs encoding the disclosed fusion reporter protein, and vectors and cells comprising the nucleic acids. Also provided are nanopore-based systems and methods for using the disclosed fusion reporter protein constructs to detect and characterize biological activity.
</abstract>

<claims>
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:
1. A fusion reporter protein comprising, in order:
a blocking domain with a stably folded tertiary structure;
a flexible analyte domain; and
a flexible tail domain, wherein the flexible tail domain has a net negative charge.
2. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, wherein the flexible tail domain is configured to initiate translocation of the fusion reporting protein through a nanopore tunnel, and wherein the blocking domain is configured to have the diameter exceeding a diameter of the nanopore total thereby preventing further translocation of the reporter protein through the nanopore tunnel when the blocking domain comes into contact with the nanopore.
3. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, wherein the folded tertiary structure of the blocking domain has a diameter greater than about 1.5 nm.
4. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, wherein the blocking domain consists of about 50 amino acids to about 250 amino acids.
5. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, wherein the blocking domain comprises a small ubiquitin related modifier (SUMO)-like protein or a titan protein domain.
6. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, wherein the SUMO-like protein domain is an Smt3 domain.
7. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, wherein the folded tertiary structure of the blocking domain remains stable at 37°C in conditions comprising at least about 500 mM KC1.
8. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, wherein the flexible analyte domain lacks tertiary structure. 9. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, wherein the flexible analyte domain has an amino acid sequence of at least 1 amino acid.
10. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, wherein the flexible analyte domain has an amino acid sequence of between about 15 and about 25 amino acids.
11. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, wherein the flexible analyte domain has an amino acid sequence containing a uniquely identifiable barcode.
12. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, wherein the flexible analyte domain has an amino acid sequence containing a target sequence for a post-translation modification.
13. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 12, wherein the post-translation modification is one of phosphorylation, methylation, glycosylation, acetylation, lipidation, nitrosylation, and the like.
14. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, wherein the flexible tail domain lacks tertiary structure.
15. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, wherein the flexible tail domain consists of at least about 20 amino acids.
16. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, wherein the flexible tail domain comprises a plurality of amino acids selected from glycine, serine, aspartic acidic, glutamic acid, and any combination thereof.
17. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, wherein the flexible tail domain consists of, or consists essentially of, glycine residues, serine residues, aspartic acidic residues, glutamic acid residues, or any combination thereof.
18. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 1, further comprising a secretion domain functional in a cell type of interest.
19. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 18, wherein the secretion domain is N-terminal to the blocking domain.
20. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 18, wherein the cell type of interest is a prokaryotic cell.
21. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 18, wherein the cell type of interest is an E. coli cell.
22. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 20 or Claim 21, wherein the secretion domain is OsmY or YebF.
23. The fusion reporter protein of Claim 18, wherein the cell type of interest is a eukaryotic cell.
24. A nucleic acid comprising a sequence encoding the fusion reporter protein recited in any one of Claims 1-23.
25. The nucleic acid of Claim 24, further comprising a promoter or enhancer element operatively linked to the sequence encoding the fusion reporter protein.
26. A vector comprising the nucleic acid of Claim 24.
27. A system comprising:
a nanopore disposed in a barrier defining a cis side and a trans side, wherein the cis side comprises a first conductive liquid medium and the trans side comprises a second conductive liquid medium, and wherein the nanopore comprises a tunnel that provides liquid communication between the cis side and the trans side;
a data acquisition device operable to detect an ion current through the nanopore; and
a fusion reporter protein of one of Claims 1-23 in the first liquid medium, wherein a diameter of the blocking domain of the reporter protein exceeds a diameter of the nanopore tunnel at its narrowest point.
28. The system of Claim 27, wherein the nanopore is a biological nanopore or solid-state nanopore.
29. The system of Claim 27, wherein the nanopore is a biological nanopore selected from alpha hemolysin, MspA, CsgG, ClyA, aerolysin, or a functional homolog or derivative thereof.
30. The system of Claim 27, wherein the nanopore, or portion thereof in contact with the first conductive liquid medium, has a net neutral or net positive charge.
31. The system of Claim 27, wherein the barrier is a bilayer, membrane, thin film, an artificial membrane comprising a mycolic acid, or solid state material.
32. The system of Claim 27, further comprising one or more electrodes in the cis side and the trans side configured to generate an electrical potential across the barrier.
33. A method of characterizing biological activity of one or more cells in a nanopore system that comprises a nanopore disposed in a barrier defining a cis side and a trans side, wherein the cis side comprises a first conductive liquid medium and the trans side comprises a second conductive liquid medium, and wherein the nanopore comprises a tunnel that provides liquid communication between the cis side and the trans side, the method comprising:
providing a fusion reporter protein as recited in one of Claims 1-23 into the first conductive liquid medium of the cis side of the nanopore system;
initiating translocation of the flexible tail domain of the fusion reporter protein through the nanopore tunnel, wherein the blocking domain of the fusion reporter protein has a diameter that exceeds the diameter of the nanopore tunnel at its narrowest point; measuring an ion current between the first conductive liquid medium and the second conductive liquid medium when the flexible analyte domain of the fusion reporter protein is in the tunnel of the nanopore; and
detecting an ion current pattern associated with a structural characteristic of the flexible analyte domain of the fusion reporter protein.
34. The method of Claim 33, wherein the fusion reporter protein is expressed in a cell from a nucleic acid comprising a first sequence that encodes the fusion reporter protein and a promoter sequence and/or an enhancer sequence operatively linked to the first sequence.
35. The method of Claim 34, further comprising expressing the fusion reporter protein in the one or more cell(s).
36. The method of Claim 34 or 35, wherein the structural characteristic of the flexible analyte domain is a barcode amino acid sequence.
37. The method of Claim 36, wherein detection of the ion current pattern indicates that the promoter and/or enhancer sequence operatively linked to the sequence encoding the fusion reporter protein with the barcode sequence is biologically active in the cell.
38. The method of Claim 37, wherein characterizing the biological activity within the cell comprises determining the expression level of the fusion reporter protein in the cell.
39. The method of Claim 34, wherein the flexible analyte domain comprises a target sequence for post-translation modification, and the structural characteristic of the flexible analyte domain is the presence or absence of the post-translation modification.
40. The method of Claim 39, wherein characterizing the biological activity within the cell comprises quantifying the degree of post-translation modifications in a batch of fusion reporter proteins with the same target sequence.
41. The method of Claim 39, wherein the post-translation modification is one of phosphorylation, methylation, glycosylation, acetylation, lipidation, nitrosylation, and the like.
42. The method of one of Claims 33-41, wherein the method is multiplexed with a plurality of distinct fusion reporter proteins that comprise flexible analyte domains with different amino acid sequences.
43. The method of Claim 42, wherein each of the plurality of distinct fusion reporter proteins is encoded by a nucleic acid sequence operatively linked to a different promoter sequence and/or an enhancer sequence.
44. The method of Claim 42, wherein the different amino acid sequences correspond to different targets for post-translation modifications in the one or more cells.
45. The method of Claim 43, wherein the plurality of distinct fusion reporter proteins with analyte domains having different amino acid sequences are expressed in different cells or cell-types.
</claims>
</document>
