<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08G1/01,G08G1/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
İNNOMOTİVE ELEKTRONİK YAZILIM ARAŞTIRMA GELİŞTİRME SANAYİ VE TİCARET LİMİTED ŞİRKETİ
</assignee>

<inventors>
TUNALI, EMRE
ÖZ, SINAN
BAYTAROGLU, OSMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71128329
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BUBBLE EYE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to bubble eye system which is for real-time traffic parameter estimation and statistical data generation by using omnidirectional visual sensors and computer vision methodologies.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Bubble Eye system for analyzing the traffic flow and disclosing traffic parameters which can be used for many different applications including advanced intersection management, optimization of traffic light durations, transportation planning, and statistical data generation for analyzing dynamics of traffic, comprising;
► Input Frame which is defining of the application area and setting of rules before being implemented,
► Modules which are generating of data for traffic analyzer module as presented below;
• Moving object detection module which is detecting of moving vehicles,
• Partial occlusion elimination module which is providing that The distinguish vehicles when more than one vehicle acts as a single vehicle,
• Track initialization module which is providing that The vehicles identified from the Moving Object Detection and Partial Occlusion Elimination modules are monitoring and the movement models are extracted to decide whether to follow the vehicles,
• Omni-directional visual tracking module which is providing that tracking of vehicle without by the deterioration of the optical means,
• Origin-destination counting module which is providing that counting of vehicles by following at high accuracy,
• Feature based classification module which is providing that classifying of vehicles according to their location as a categories by using of deep learning,
• Occupancy detection modules which is providing that instensity of the vehicles in red light standby zone is substracted,
► Traffic analyzer module which is generating an traffic jam information that is exist or not at intersections or roads,
► Instantaneous Visual Output Generation ve Real-time Visual Display section which is providing that Data generated from the traffic analyzer on the image taken from the camera is printed in real time as a symbology and the image produced is streamed from the internet and transmitted to the user and observers,
► Statistical Data Generation ve Simulation Integration section which is providing that data taken from the intersection are instantaneously written to the database and transmitted to a specified server and the measurements taken at the intersection can be transmitted to the simulation program in real time, and the real data at a later time allows to be used for optimization of intersection light times,
► Virtual pan tilt zoom Section which is providing that allows to using of pan tilt zoom functions,
► Adaptive intersection controller is the unit that determines green light duration considering the traffic parameters extracted by the system as a whole,
► Cameras that are used for processing visual data in the field of view,
► Blocks that are object detection, target tracking, occlusion elimination, queue length estimation, and vehicle classification,
► Sensors That Are Vision Based Sensors And Providing Achieving Multiple Tasks At The Same Time By Analyzing Visual Data,
► A database where taken of data from the intersection is written instantaneously,
► A server where the data is transmitted,
► A simulation integration where the measurements taken at the intersection is transmitted in real time.
2. Bubble Eye system according to claim 1; wherein said system can produce vehicle presence, moving object detection, vehicle tracking, queue length estimation, waiting pedestrian detection, congestion detection, speed estimation, incident detection, entryexit pair counting and vehicle classification by using of blocks.
3. Bubble Eye system according to claim 1; wherein said Cameras that are both omnidirectional (typically fisheye) cameras, panoramic cameras and single directional network cameras.
4. Bubble Eye system according to claim 1 or claim 2; wherein said system optimize traffic flow by adaptive signal time controlling in intersections and together with planning fixed time signalizations for any intersection and network of intersections by using of output informations.
5. Bubble Eye system according to claim 4; wherein said output informations are vehicle presence, moving object detection, vehicle tracking, queue length estimation, waiting pedestrian detection, congestion detection, speed estimation, incident detection, entryexit pair counting and vehicle classification.
6. Bubble Eye system according to claim 1; wherein said system can use any type of camera(s) as a sensor and analyzes traffic by using computer vision techniques.
7. Bubble Eye system according to claim 1; wherein said Origin-destination counting module which is providing that From which direction the vehicles comes and which direction the vehicles goes that is detected by following the vehicles and from which direction in which direction how many vehicles goes are counted by high accuracy.
8. Bubble Eye system According to claim 1; wherein said input comprising definition of arrival regions, entry nodes, exit nodes, and routes in between these entry-exit regions in minimum.
9. Bubble Eye system According to claim 1; wherein said the real data allows to be used for optimization of traffic light times (signal durations) in intersection or network of intersections.
10. Bubble Eye system According to claim 1; wherein said multiple tasks are illegal turn, wrong way violation, stopped vehicle detection, parking violation, debris detection or abnormality detections.
11. Bubble Eye system according to claim 1; wherein said system benefit from data provided by multiple cameras simultaneously for any analysis given by the system.
12. Bubble Eye system according to claim 1; wherein said system brings real time, bicycle and pedesterian detection which are supported with features.
13. Bubble Eye system according to claim 1; wherein said Cameras that have overlapping regions in their field of views or not situations;
If cameras have overlapping regions in their field of views:
• ensuring of Track continuity between cameras,
• A moving object exiting from the field of concern of a camera is continued to be tracked in the other camera's field of concern,
If cameras do not have overlapping regions in their field of views:
• Providing of data for Each cameras respective field of concern.
14. A method for operating Bubble Eye system comprising the steps of;
• Defining of the application area and setting of rules before being implemented,
• Generating of data for traffic analyzer module by Modules,
• Analyzing of datas which are collecting from Modules at traffic analyzer module,
• Printing of data which is generated from the traffic analyzer on the image taken from the camera in real time as a symbology,
• Streaming of the produced image from the internet and transmitting to the user and observers, • Using for many different applications including advanced intersection management, optimization of traffic light durations, transportation planning, and statistical data generation for analyzing dynamics of traffic.
</claims>
</document>
