<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B7/06,H04B7/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUALCOMM
</assignee>

<inventors>
KHANDEKAR, AAMOD DINKAR
TOUBOUL, ASSAF
GUBESKYS, ARTHUR
LANDIS, SHAY
GOROKHOV, Alexi Yurievitch
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70482846
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BEAM MANAGEMENT USING ADAPTIVE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide techniques for beam management using adaptive learning. Certain aspects provide a method that can be performed by a node, such as user equipment (UE) or a base station (BS). The node determines one or more beams to utilize for a beam management procedure using adaptive learning. The node performs the beam management procedure using the determined one or more beams. In some aspects, the node uses an adaptive reinforcement learning algorithm to select beams for measurement in beam discovery procedure. The node may adaptive the beam management algorithm based on feedback associated with the beam selection, such as based on a throughput achieved using a beam pairing determined during the beam management procedure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for wireless communication by a node, comprising:
determining one or more beams to utilize for a beam management procedure using adaptive learning; and
performing the beam management procedure using the determined one or more beams.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
updating an adaptive learning algorithm used for the adaptive learning based on feedback or training information, or a combination thereof; and
performing another beam management procedure using the updated adaptive learning algorithm.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the feedback comprises feedback associated with the beam management procedure.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the training information comprises:
training information obtained from deploying one or more user equipment (UEs) in one or more simulated communication environments prior to network deployment of the one or more UEs;
training information obtained by feedback previously received while the one or more UEs was deployed in one or more communication environments;
training information from at least one of the network, one or more UEs, or a cloud; or
training information received while the node was at least one of online or idle; or a combination thereof.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the training information comprises training information received from one or more UEs, different than the node, after deployment of the node, wherein the training information comprises information associated with beam measurements by the one or more UEs, or feedback associated with one or more beam management procedures performed by the one or more UEs, or a combination thereof. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the node comprises a UE.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein:
using the adaptive learning algorithm includes outputting an action based on one or more inputs;
the feedback is associated with the action; and
updating the adaptive learning algorithm based on the feedback comprises adjusting one or more weights applied to the one or more inputs.
8. The method of claim 2, wherein the adaptive learning algorithm comprises an adaptive machine learning algorithm; an adaptive reinforcement learning algorithm; an adaptive deep learning algorithm; an adaptive continuous infinite learning algorithm; or an adaptive policy optimization reinforcement learning algorithm, or a combination thereof.
9. The method of claim 2, wherein the adaptive learning algorithm is modeled as a partially observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP).
10. The method of claim 2, wherein the adaptive learning algorithm is implemented by an artificial neural network.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein:
the artificial neural network comprises a deep Q network (DQN) comprising one or more deep neural networks (DNNs); and
the determining the one or more beams using the adaptive learning includes: passing one or more state parameters and one or more action parameters through the one or more DNNs;
for each state parameter, outputting a value for each action parameter; and
selecting an action associated with a maximum output value.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein updating the adaptive learning algorithm comprises adjusting one or more weights associated with one or more neuron connections in the artificial neural network.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more beams to utilize for the beam management procedure using the adaptive learning includes:
determining one or more beams to include in a codebook based on the adaptive learning; and
selecting one or more beams from the codebook to utilize for the beam management procedure.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more beams to utilize for the beam management procedure includes using the adaptive learning to select one or more beams from a codebook to utilize for the beam management procedure.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the adaptive learning uses a state parameter associated with a channel measurement, a reward parameter associated with a received signal throughput or spectral efficiency, and an action parameter associated with selection of a beam pair corresponding to the channel measurement.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the channel measurement comprises a reference signal receive power (RSRP); a spectral efficiency, a channel flatness, or a signal-to-noise ratio (SNR); or a combination thereof.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the received signal comprises a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) transmission.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the reward parameter is offset by a penalty amount.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the penalty amount is dependent on a number of the one or more beams measured for the beam management procedure.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the penalty amount is dependent on an amount of power consumption associated with the beam management procedure.
21. The method of claim 15, wherein the one or more beams are utilized for transmission, reception, or both of one or more synchronization signal blocks (SSBs).
22. The method of claim 15, wherein performing the beam management procedure using the determined one or more beams includes:
measuring a channel based on synchronization signal block (SSB) transmissions from a base station (BS) using the determined one or more beams, the SSB
transmissions associated with one or more transmit beams of the BS; and
selecting one or more beam pair links (BPLs) associated with one or more channel measurements that are above a channel measurement threshold; or one or more strongest channel measurements among all channel measurements associated with the SSB transmissions; or a combination thereof.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the determined one or more beams comprises a subset of available receive beams.
24. The method of claim 22, further comprising:
receiving a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) using one of the one or more BPLs;
determining a throughput associated with the PDSCH;
updating the adaptive learning algorithm based on the determined throughput; and
using the updated adaptive learning algorithm to determine another one or more beams to utilize for performing another beam management procedure to select another one or more BPLs.
25. A node configured for wireless communication, comprising:
means for determining one or more beams to utilize for a beam management procedure using adaptive learning; and
means for performing the beam management procedure using the determined one or more beams. 26. The node of claim 25, further comprising:
means for updating an adaptive learning algorithm used for the adaptive learning based on feedback or training information, or a combination thereof; and
means for performing another beam management procedure using the updated adaptive learning algorithm.
27. The node of claim 25, wherein the means for performing the beam management procedure using the determined one or more beams includes:
means for measuring a channel based on synchronization signal block (SSB) transmissions from a base station (BS) using the determined one or more beams, the SSB transmissions associated with one or more transmit beams of the BS; and
means for selecting one or more beam pair links (BPLs) associated with one or more channel measurements that are above a channel measurement threshold; or one or more strongest channel measurements among all channel measurements associated with the SSB transmissions; or a combination thereof.
28. The node of claim 27, further comprising:
means for receiving a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) using one of the one or more BPLs;
means for determining a throughput associated with the PDSCH;
means for updating the adaptive learning algorithm based on the determined throughput; and
means for using the updated adaptive learning algorithm to determine another one or more beams to utilize for performing another beam management procedure to select another one or more BPLs.
29. A node configured for wireless communication, comprising:
a memory; and
a processor coupled to the memory and configured to:
determine one or more beams to utilize for a beam management procedure using adaptive learning; and
perform the beam management procedure using the determined one or more beams.
30. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing computer executable code, comprising:
code for determining one or more beams to utilize for a beam management procedure using adaptive learning; and
code for performing the beam management procedure using the determined one or more beams.
</claims>
</document>
