<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S11/00,H04W4/02,H04W64/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COGNITIVE SYSTEMS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MANKU, TAJINDER
OMER, MOHAMMAD
BEG, Christopher
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72664099
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTROLLING DEVICE PARTICIPATION IN WIRELESS SENSING SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
In a general aspect, motion is detected using wireless signals. In an example, a method includes receiving, at a wireless communication device, requests for the wireless communication device to transmit wireless signals, the requests initiated by a wireless sensing system. The method further includes transmitting a series of wireless signals from the wireless communication device in response to the requests, and detecting, at the wireless communication device, a trigger event after transmitting the series of wireless signals. The method additionally includes updating, by the wireless communication device, a state of the wireless communication device based on the trigger event, the updated state indicating that the wireless communication device is not enabled to transmit wireless signals in response to the requests from the wireless sensing system. The method also includes communicating, by the wireless communication device, the updated state of the wireless communication device to the wireless sensing system.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method, comprising:
receiving, at a wireless communication device, requests for the wireless
communication device to transmit wireless signals, the requests initiated by a wireless sensing system;
transmitting a series of wireless signals from the wireless communication device in response to the requests;
detecting, at the wireless communication device, a trigger event after transmitting the series of wireless signals;
updating, by the wireless communication device, a state of the wireless
communication device based on the trigger event, the updated state indicating that the wireless communication device is not enabled to transmit wireless signals in response to the requests from the wireless sensing system; and
communicating, by the wireless communication device, the updated state of the wireless communication device to the wireless sensing system.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the wireless communication device is configured to communicate in a wireless communication network, and wherein the requests, the series of wireless signals, and the updated state of the wireless communication device are
communicated wirelessly according to protocols defined by the wireless communication network.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the wireless sensing system uses the wireless communication network to detect motion, wherein the wireless communication device is a client node in the wireless communication network, and wherein the updated state of the wireless communication device is communicated to an access point of the wireless communication network.
4. The method of any of claims 1-3, further comprising: receiving, at the wireless communication device, further requests for the wireless communication device to transmit wireless signals, the further requests initiated by the wireless sensing system after the trigger event; and
communicating, by the wireless communication device, an indication that the wireless communication device cannot comply with the request.
5. The method of any of claims 1-3, further comprising:
by operation of the wireless sensing system and in response to the updated state of the wireless communication device, selecting one or more other wireless communication devices enabled to transmit wireless signals in response to further requests from the wireless sensing system.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising:
detecting, at the wireless communication device, a second trigger event;
updating, by the wireless communication device, the updated state of the wireless communication device based on the second trigger event, the second updated state indicating that the wireless communication device is enabled to transmit wireless signals in response to the requests from the wireless sensing system; and
communicating, by the wireless communication device, the second updated state of the wireless communication device to the wireless sensing system.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising:
selecting, by the wireless sensing system, the wireless communication device to participate in motion detection in response to receiving the updated state.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising:
after the second trigger event, receiving, at the wireless communication device, further requests for the wireless communication device to transmit wireless signals, the further requests initiated by the wireless sensing system; and
transmitting a second series of wireless signals from the wireless communication device in response to the further requests.
9. The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein the wireless sensing system is configured to use the series of wireless signals to detect motion of an object in a space accessed by the series of wireless signals.
10. The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein the trigger event comprises a
disconnection of the wireless communication device from a battery charger.
11. A wireless communication device comprising:
a processor; and
a memory comprising instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the wireless communication device to perform operations comprising:
receiving requests for the wireless communication device to transmit wireless signals, the requests initiated by a wireless sensing system;
transmitting a series of wireless signals from the wireless communication device in response to the requests;
detecting a trigger event after transmitting the series of wireless signals; updating a state of the wireless communication device based on the trigger event, the updated state indicating that the wireless communication device is not enabled to transmit wireless signals in response to the requests from the wireless sensing system; and
communicating, by the wireless communication device, the updated state of the wireless communication device to the wireless sensing system.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the wireless communication device is configured to communicate in a wireless communication network, and wherein the requests, the series of wireless signals, and the updated state of the wireless communication device are
communicated wirelessly according to protocols defined by the wireless communication network.
13. The device of claim 12, wherein the wireless sensing system uses the wireless communication network to detect motion, wherein the wireless communication device is a client node in the wireless communication network, and wherein the updated state of the wireless communication device is communicated to an access point of the wireless communication network.
14. The device of any of claims 11-13, the operations further comprising:
receiving further requests for the wireless communication device to transmit wireless signals, the further requests initiated by the wireless sensing system after the trigger event; and
communicating an indication that the wireless communication device cannot comply with the request.
15. The device of any of claims 11-13, the operations further comprising:
detecting a second trigger event;
updating the updated state of the wireless communication device based on the second trigger event, the second updated state indicating that the wireless communication device is enabled to transmit wireless signals in response to the requests from the wireless sensing system; and
communicating the updated state of the wireless communication device to the wireless sensing system.
16. The device of claim 15, the operations further comprising:
after the second trigger event, receiving further requests for the wireless communication device to transmit wireless signals, the further requests initiated by the wireless sensing system; and
transmitting a second series of wireless signals from the wireless communication device in response to the further requests.
17. The device of any of claims 11-13, wherein the trigger event comprises a
disconnection of the wireless communication device from a battery charger.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by data processing apparatus, perform operations comprising:
receiving, at a wireless communication device, requests for the wireless
communication device to transmit wireless signals, the requests initiated by a wireless sensing system;
transmitting a series of wireless signals from the wireless communication device in response to the requests;
detecting, at the wireless communication device, a trigger event after transmitting the series of wireless signals;
updating, by the wireless communication device, a state of the wireless
communication device based on the trigger event, the updated state indicating that the wireless communication device is not enabled to transmit wireless signals in response to the requests from the wireless sensing system; and
communicating, by the wireless communication device, the updated state of the wireless communication device to the wireless sensing system.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the wireless communication device is configured to communicate in a wireless communication network, and wherein the requests, the series of wireless signals, and the updated state of the wireless communication device are communicated wirelessly according to protocols defined by the wireless communication network.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the wireless sensing system uses the wireless communication network to detect motion, wherein the wireless communication device is a client node in the wireless communication network, and wherein the updated state of the wireless communication device is communicated to an access point of the wireless communication network.
21. The computer-readable medium of any of claims 18-20, the operations further comprising: receiving, at the wireless communication device, further requests for the wireless communication device to transmit wireless signals, the further requests initiated by the wireless sensing system after the trigger event; and
communicating, by the wireless communication device, an indication that the wireless communication device cannot comply with the request.
22. The computer-readable medium of any of claims 18-20, the operations further comprising:
by operation of the wireless sensing system and in response to the updated state of the wireless communication device, selecting one or more other wireless communication devices enabled to transmit wireless signals in response to further requests from the wireless sensing system.
23. The computer-readable medium of claim 22, the operations further comprising: detecting, at the wireless communication device, a second trigger event;
updating, by the wireless communication device, the updated state of the wireless communication device based on the second trigger event, the second updated state indicating that the wireless communication device is enabled to transmit wireless signals in response to the requests from the wireless sensing system; and
communicating, by the wireless communication device, the second updated state of the wireless communication device to the wireless sensing system.
24. The computer-readable medium of claim 23, the operations further comprising: selecting, by the wireless sensing system, the wireless communication device to participate in motion detection in response to receiving the updated state.
25. The computer-readable medium of claim 23, the operations further comprising: after the second trigger event, receiving, at the wireless communication device, further requests for the wireless communication device to transmit wireless signals, the further requests initiated by the wireless sensing system; and
transmitting a second series of wireless signals from the wireless communication device in response to the further requests.
26. The computer-readable medium of any of claims 18-20, wherein the wireless sensing system is configured to use the series of wireless signals to detect motion of an object in a space accessed by the series of wireless signals.
27. The computer-readable medium of any of claims 18-20, wherein the trigger event comprises a disconnection of the wireless communication device from a battery charger.
28. A method, comprising:
selecting a first wireless communication device to participate in motion detection in a wireless sensing system;
sending a first series of requests to the first wireless communication device to transmit a first series of wireless signals;
receiving the first series of wireless signals from the first wireless communication device;
obtaining first motion detection output data representing a degree of motion detected by the wireless sensing system based on the first series of wireless signals;
receiving a message from the first wireless communication device indicating that the first wireless communication device is not enabled to participate in motion detection; and
in response to receiving the message, selecting a second, different wireless communication device to participate in the motion detection in the wireless sensing system.
29. The method of claim 28, further comprising:
sending a second series of requests to the second wireless communication device to transmit a second series of wireless signals;
receiving the second series of wireless signals from the second wireless
communication device; and
obtaining second motion detection output data representing the degree of motion detected by the wireless sensing system based on the second series of wireless signals.
30. The method of any of claims 28-29, wherein the message from the first wireless communication device is received in response to the first wireless communication device being disconnected from a battery charger.
31. The method of any of claims 28-29, wherein the first wireless communication device is configured to communicate in a wireless communication network, and wherein the first series of requests, the first series of wireless signals, and the message are communicated wirelessly according to protocols defined by the wireless communication network.
32. The method of any of claims 28-29, further comprising:
after receiving the message from the first wireless communication device, sending a further series of requests to the first wireless communication device to transmit a further series of wireless signals; and
receiving a further message from the first wireless communication device indicating that the first wireless communication device cannot comply with the further series of requests.
33. The method of any of claims 28-29, further comprising:
after receiving the message from the first wireless communication device, receiving a second further message from the first wireless communication device indicating that the first wireless communication device is enabled to participate in motion detection.
</claims>
</document>
