<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S17/931,H01Q1/08,H01Q1/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WAYMO
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI ZHE
WANG MIN
SLEATOR MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71994008
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMOTIVE COMMUNICATION SYSTEM WITH DIELECTRIC WAVEGUIDE CABLE AND WIRELESS CONTACTLESS ROTARY JOINT
</title>

<abstract>
Some embodiments of the present disclosure provide a communication system. The communication system can include a first communication unit, a second communication unit, and a rotary joint configured to enable the first communication unit to rotate with respect to the second communication unit about an axis of rotation of the communication system. The first communication unit can comprise a first antenna. The second communication unit can comprises a second antenna and a dielectric waveguide cable extending from the second antenna to the rotary joint. The first antenna and the second antenna can transmit and receive electromagnetic signals. Therefore, the system can reliably communicate signals between the first communication unit and the second communication unit, without a need for a physical connection between the first communication unit and the second communication unit.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A communication system comprising:
a first communication unit;
a second communication unit; and
a rotary joint configured to enable the first communication unit to rotate with respect to the second communication unit about an axis of rotation of the communication system,
wherein the first communication unit comprises a first antenna,
wherein the second communication unit comprises:
a second antenna, and
a dielectric waveguide cable extending from the second antenna to the rotary joint, wherein a proximal end of the dielectric waveguide cable is coupled to the second antenna and a distal end of the dielectric waveguide cable is affixed to the second communication unit at a location bordering a space defined by the rotary joint, wherein the first communication unit and the second communication unit are configured to engage in two-way communication with each other,
wherein first electromagnetic signals transmitted from the first antenna to the second antenna enter the distal end of the dielectric waveguide cable following propagation of the first electromagnetic signals across the rotary joint,
wherein second electromagnetic signals transmitted from the second antenna to the first antenna exit the distal end of the dielectric waveguide cable into the rotary joint, and
wherein an axis of the distal end of the dielectric waveguide cable is substantially aligned with the axis of rotation of the communication system.
2. The communication system of claim 1 , wherein a vehicle comprises the second communication unit, and
wherein the communication system enables two-way communication between the vehicle and the sensor unit.
3. The communication system of claim 2, wherein the first antenna is communicatively coupled to a light detection and ranging (LIDAR) sensor included in the sensor unit.
4. The communication system of claim 1 , wherein the dielectric waveguide cable comprises a first dielectric material sheathed in a second dielectric material different from the first dielectric material, and
wherein the second dielectric material is selected to provide internal reflection of the first electromagnetic signals and the second electromagnetic signals within the dielectric waveguide cable.
5. The communication system of claim 4, wherein one or more of the first dielectric material or the second dielectric material comprises plastic.
6. The communication system of claim 1 , wherein the distal end of the dielectric waveguide cable is located between approximately 0.2 millimeters and approximately 0.5 millimeters from the first antenna.
7. The communication system of claim 1 , wherein one or more of the first antenna or the second antenna is configured to operate with a circular polarization.
8. The communication system of claim 1 , wherein the first electromagnetic signals and the second electromagnetic signals have a frequency between 50 and 100 Gigahertz.
9. The communication system of claim 1 , wherein the center of the first antenna is substantially aligned with the axis of rotation of the communication system and the axis of the distal end of the dielectric waveguide cable.
10. The connnunication system of claim 1, wherein the first communication unit comprises a first set of one or more communication chips, the first set of communication chips including the first antenna, and
wherein the second communication unit comprises a second set of one or more communication chips, the second set of communication chips including the second antenna.
1 1. A method comprising:
transmitting, by a first antenna of a first communication unit, first electromagnetic signals across a rotary joint and into a distal end of a dielectric waveguide cable, wherein the dielectric waveguide cable extends from the rotary joint to a second antenna of the second communication unit, and wherein a proximal end of the dielectric waveguide cable is coupled to the second antenna and the distal end of the dielectric waveguide cable is affixed to the second communication unit at a location bordering a space defined by the rotary joint; and coupling, by the dielectric waveguide cable, the first electromagnetic signals to the second antenna,
wherein the first communication unit and the second communication unit are configured to engage in two-way communication with each other, and
wherein the rotary joint is configured to enable the first communication unit to rotate with respect to the second communication unit about an axis of rotation, wherein an axis of the distal end of the dielectric waveguide cable is substantially aligned with the axis of rotation.
12. The method of claim 1 1 , further comprising:
transmitting, by the second antenna, second electromagnetic signals into the proximal end of the dielectric waveguide cable; and
coupling, by the dielectric waveguide cable, the second electromagnetic signals into the rotary joint, whereby the second electromagnetic signals exit the distal end of the dielectric waveguide cable into the rotary joint and propagate across the rotary joint to the first antenna.
13. The method of claim 1 1 , wherein the first communication unit comprises a sensor unit rotationally mounted to a vehicle, and
wherein the vehicle comprises the second communication unit.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the dielectric waveguide cable comprises a first dielectric material sheathed in a second dielectric material different from the first dielectric material, and
wherein the second dielectric material is selected to provide internal reflection of the first electromagnetic signals within the dielectric waveguide cable.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein one or more of the first dielectric material or the second dielectric material comprises plastic.
16. The method of claim 1 1 , wherein the distal end of the dielectric waveguide cable is located between approximately 0.2 millimeters and approximately 0.5 millimeters from the first antenna. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein transmitting the first electromagnetic signals comprises transmitting circularly-polarized electromagnetic signals.
18. A vehicle comprising:
a sensor unit rotationally mounted to the vehicle;
a vehicle-side communication unit; and
a rotary joint configured to enable the sensor unit to rotate with respect to the vehicleside communication unit about an axis of rotation,
wherein the sensor unit comprises a first antenna,
wherein the vehicle-side communication unit comprises:
a second antenna, and
a dielectric waveguide cable extending from the second antenna to the rotary joint, wherein a proximal end of the dielectric waveguide cable is coupled to the second antenna and a distal end of the dielectric waveguide cable is affixed to the vehicle-side communication unit at a location bordering a space defined by the rotary joint, wherein the fust communication unit and the second communication unit are configured to engage in two-way communication with each other,
wherein first electromagnetic signals transmitted from the first antenna to the second antenna enter the distal end of the dielectric waveguide cable following propagation of the first electromagnetic signals across the rotary joint,
wherein second electromagnetic signals transmitted from the second antenna to the first antenna exit the distal end of the dielectric waveguide cable into the rotary joint, and
wherein an axis of the distal end of the dielectric waveguide cable is substantially aligned with the axis of rotation.
19. The vehicle of claim 18, wherein the dielectric waveguide cable comprises a first dielectric material sheathed in a second dielectric material different from the first dielectric material, and
wherein the second dielectric material is selected to provide internal reflection of the first electromagnetic signals and the second electromagnetic signals within the dielectric waveguide cable. 20. The vehicle of claim 18, wherein one or more of the first antenna or the second antenna is configured to operate with a circular polarization electromagnetic signals.
</claims>
</document>
