<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63J5/00,A63J5/02,G03H1/00,G03H1/04,G06T15/08,G06T15/50,G06T7/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LIGHT FIELD LAB
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEVENSEE, BRENDAN
DOHM, JOHN
KARAFIN, JONATHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73245221
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LIGHT FIELD DISPLAY SYSTEM FOR PERFORMANCE EVENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A light filed (LF) display system for displaying holographic performance content (e.g., a live performance) to viewers in a venue. The LF display system in the venue includes LF display modules tiled together to form an array of LF modules. The array of LF modules create a performance volume (e.g., a stage) for displaying the performance content in the venue. The array of LF modules displays the performance content to viewers in viewing volumes. The LF display system can be included in a LF presentation network. The LF presentation network allows holographic performance content to be recorded at one location and displayed (concurrently or non- concurrently) at another location. The LF presentation network includes a network system to manage the digital rights of the holographic performance content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A light field (LF) display system comprising:
a network interface configured to receive encoded holographic content via a network; a decoder configured to decode the encoded holographic content into a format that is presentable by the LF display assembly; and
a light field display assembly configured to present decoded holographic content to an audience in a venue.
2. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the encoder decodes the encoded holographic content in approximately real time.
3. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the holographic content is a livestream of an event and the holographic content is presented in approximately real time.
4. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the encoded holographic content is in a first format and the decoded holographic content is in a second format.
5. The LF display system of claim 4, wherein the first format is a vectorized data format and the second format is a rasterized data format.
6. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the decoder employs a proprietary codec to decode the encoded streaming holographic content.
7. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the holographic content is encoded in a format that is decodable by a proprietary codec.
8. The LF display system of claim 1, further comprising:
a LF processing engine configured to determine a hardware configuration of the LF display system; and
wherein the decoder decodes the encoded holographic content based on the determined hardware configuration of the LF display system.
9. The LF display system of claim 7, wherein the hardware configuration includes any of:
a resolution,
a number of projected rays per degree,
a field of view
a deflection angle on the display surface, and a dimensionality of the display surface.
10. The LF display system of claim 1, further comprising:
a LF processing engine configured to determine a geometric orientation of the LF display system; and
wherein the decoder decodes the encoded holographic content based on the determined geometric orientation of the LF display system.
11. The LF display system of claim 10, wherein the geometric orientation includes any of:
a number of display panels of the LF display assembly,
a relative orientation of the display panels,
a height of the display panels,
a width of the display panels, and
a layout of the display panels.
12. The LF display system of claim 1, further comprising:
a LF processing engine configured to determine a configuration of the venue; and wherein the decoder decodes the encoded holographic content based on the determined configuration of the venue.
13. The LF display system of claim 12, wherein the configuration of the venue includes any of:
one or more holographic object volumes,
one or more viewing volumes, and
a location of the audience relative to the LF display assembly.
14. The LF display system of claim 1, further comprising:
a digital rights management system configured to manage the digital rights of the
received encoded holographic content, the digital rights management system allowing the LF display assembly to project decoded holographic content for which the digital rights management system provides a digital key.
15. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the holographic content is encrypted and the LF display system is configured to decrypt the holographic content.
16. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the encoded holographic content is received from a holographic content repository connected to the LF display system via the network.
17. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the holographic content is received in response to the LF display system transmitting a transaction fee to a holographic content repository for the holographic content.
18. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the holographic content is received from a holographic content generation system configured to
record a live performance,
encode the recording of the performance to encoded holographic content, and transmit the encoded holographic content to LF display system via the network.
19. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the network is a public network.
20. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the network is a private network configured for transmitting holographic content.
21. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein
the LF display assembly is configured to present acoustic data, and
the encoded holographic content includes acoustic data such that when holographic content is decoded the LF display system presents the decoded holographic content and the decoded acoustic data.
22. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the presented holographic content includes a first type of energy and a second type of energy.
23. The LF display system of claim 22, wherein the first type of energy is electromagnetic energy and the second type of energy is ultrasonic energy.
24. The LF display system of claim 23, wherein the first type of energy and second type of energy are presented at the same location such that the LF display assembly presents a volumetric tactile surface.
25. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein
the LF display assembly is configured to record image data, and
the LF display assembly simultaneously presents holographic content and records image data.
26. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein
the LF display assembly is configured to record holographic content, and
the LF display assembly simultaneously presents and records holographic content.
27. The LF display system of claim 1, further comprising:
a tracking system configured to obtain information about one or more viewers in the audience viewing the holographic content.
28. The LF display system of claim 27, wherein the LF display assembly presents holographic content to the audience based on information obtained by the tracking system.
29. The LF display system of claim 27, wherein the information obtained by the tracking system includes:
responses by the one or more viewers in the audience to presented holographic content, and
characteristics of the one or more viewers in the audience.
30. The LF display system of claim 27, wherein the information about the viewers includes any of a position of the viewer, a movement of the viewer, a gesture of the viewer, an expression of the viewer, an age of a viewer, a sex of the viewer, and a clothing worn by the viewer.
31. The LF display system of claim 1, further comprising:
a viewer profiling system configured to
identify viewers in the audience viewing the holographic content, and generate a viewer profile for each of the identified viewers.
32. The LF display system of claim 31, wherein the LF display assembly presents holographic content to the audience based on identified viewers in the audience.
33. The LF display system of claim 31, wherein the LF display system presents holographic content to the audience based on the profile of an identified viewer.
34. The LF display system of claim 31, wherein the viewer profiling system is configured to identify viewer responses to the holographic content or characteristics of viewers viewing the holographic content, and include the identified responses or characteristics in viewer profiles.
35. The LF display system of claim 27, wherein the LF viewer profiling system identifies characteristics of the viewers and the characteristics include any of
a position of the viewer,
a motion of the viewer,
a gesture of the viewer,
a facial expression of the viewer, a sex of the viewer,
an age of the viewer, and
a clothing of the viewer.
36. The LF display system of claim 26, wherein the viewer profiling system accesses social media accounts of the one or more identified viewers to generate a viewer profile.
37. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the venue is a theater.
38. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the venue includes a plurality of viewing locations approximately surrounding a display surface of the LF display system that is substantially horizontal.
39. The LF display system of claim 38, wherein the display surface is at least some part of a floor of the venue.
40. The LF display system of claim 38, wherein the display surface is at least some part of a stage in the venue.
41. The LF display system of claim 38, wherein the display surface is at least some part of a raised viewing platform in the venue.
42. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the venue includes a plurality of viewing locations arrayed approximately to a front of the LF display assembly.
43. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the venue includes a plurality of viewing locations positioned such that they have an unobstructed line of sight to the presented holographic content.
44. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the venue has a slope and one or more viewing locations are positioned along the slope.
45. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the venue comprises:
one or more viewing tiers, each viewing tier configured to include a portion of the audience.
46. The LF display system of claim 45, wherein the LF display system presents the same decoded holographic content to each tier of the venue.
47. The LF display system of claim 45, wherein the LF display system presents different decoded holographic content to one or more tiers of the venue.
48. The LF display system of claim 45, wherein the tiers are approximately circular and are positioned such that they surround the LF display assembly.
49. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein
the venue comprises a first wall, and
the LF display assembly is positioned on the first wall such that the holographic content is presented from the first wall to the audience.
50. The LF display system of claim 49, wherein
the venue comprises a second wall, and
the LF display assembly is positioned on the first and second wall such that the holographic content is presented from the first wall and second wall to the audience.
51. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein
the venue comprises a stage, and
the LF display assembly is positioned on the stage such that the holographic content is presented from the stage to the audience.
52. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein
the venue comprises a floor, and
the LF display assembly is positioned on the floor such that the holographic content is presented from the floor to the audience.
53. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the LF display assembly is a substantially flat surface.
54. The LF display system of claim 1, wherein the LF display system is a curved surface.
55. A light field (LF) display system comprising:
a network interface configured to receive a livestream comprising real-time holographic content via a network;
a LF processing engine configured to generate additional holographic content; and a LF display assembly configured to present the real-time holographic content and additional holographic content to an audience in a venue.
56. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein the livestream comprises real-time holographic content representing a simulcast of one or more of: a concert,
a performance,
a show,
a scene, and
an event.
57. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein the livestream comprises additional holographic content representing one or more of:
a concert;
a performance;
a show;
a scene; and
an event.
58. The LF display system of claim 57, wherein the additional holographic content is generated by one or more of:
a neural network,
a procedural generation algorithm,
a machine learning algorithm, and
an artificial intelligence.
59. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein the additional holographic content includes one or more of:
a computer-generated rendering of an object, an event, or a scene, and
previously recorded live-action holographic content.
60. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein the livestream comprises holographic content representing one or more of:
a singer,
a band,
an actor,
a dancer,
a comedian, and
a performer.
61. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein the additional holographic content augments the livestream comprising real-time holographic content.
62. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein the additional holographic content replaces real time holographic content included in the livestream.
63. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein the additional holographic content represents one or more of:
a set,
a stage,
a prop,
a piece of clothing
a costume, and
an instrument.
64. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein the additional holographic content represents one or more of:
a person, an object, an event, or a scene from another time or location,
a computer-generated rendering of a person, an object, an event, or a scene, and, previously recorded holographic content.
65. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein the additional holographic content represents on or more of:
an advertisement, and
a product placement.
66. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein the additional holographic content is generated by one or more of:
a neural network,
a procedural generation algorithm,
a machine learning algorithm, and
an artificial intelligence.
67. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein a viewer in the audience can interact with the additional holographic content.
68. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein the viewer can interact with the additional holographic content and not the real-time holographic content.
69. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein a viewer can interact with the real-time holographic content.
70. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein the processing engine is configured to generate additional holographic content based on an interaction of the viewer with the holographic content presented by the LF display assembly.
71. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein a viewer in the audience interacts with the presented holographic content with an interaction comprising any of:
a physical interaction,
an auditory interaction, and
a visual interaction.
72. The LF display system of claim 55, further comprising:
a tracking system configured to obtain information about one or more viewers in the audience viewing the holographic content.
73. The LF display system of claim 72, wherein the additional holographic content generated by the processing engine is based on the information about the one or more viewers in the audience obtained by the tracking system.
74. The LF display system of claim 72, wherein the information obtained by the tracking system includes:
responses to presented holographic content by the one or more viewers in the audience, and
characteristics of the one or more viewers in the audience.
75. The LF display system of claim 72, wherein the information about the viewers includes any of a position of the viewer, a movement of the viewer, a gesture of the viewer, an expression of the viewer, an age of a viewer, a sex of the viewer, and a clothing worn by the viewer.
76. The LF display system of claim 72, wherein
the tracking system is configured to determine aggregate information about the one or more viewers in the audience, and
the additional holographic content generated by the processing engine is based on the aggregate information.
77. The LF display system of claim 55, further comprising: a viewer profiling system configured to:
identify one or more viewers in the audience viewing the holographic content, and
generate viewer profiles for the one or more identified viewers.
78. The LF display system of claim 77, wherein the additional holographic content generated by the processing engine is based on the one or more viewers identified by the viewer profiling system.
79. The LF display system of claim 77, wherein the additional holographic content generated by the processing engine is based on the viewer profiles generated by the viewer profiling system.
80. The LF display system of claim 77, wherein the viewer profiling system is configured to identify viewer responses to the holographic content or characteristics of viewers viewing the holographic content, and include the identified responses or characteristics in viewer profiles.
81. The method of claim 77, wherein the viewer profiling system identifies characteristics including any of:
a position of the viewer,
a motion of the viewer,
a gesture of the viewer,
a facial expression of the viewer,
a sex of the viewer,
an age of the viewer, and
a clothing of the viewer.
82. The LF display system of claim 77, wherein
the viewer profiling system is configured to generate an aggregate profile about the one or more viewers in the audience, and
the additional holographic content generated by the processing engine is based on the aggregate profile.
83. The LF display system of claim 55, further comprising:
a LF processing engine configured to determine a hardware configuration of the LF
display system; and
wherein the LF display assembly presents the holographic content based on the determined hardware configuration of the LF display system.
84. The LF display system of claim 83, wherein the hardware configuration includes any of: a resolution,
a number of projected rays per degree,
a field of view,
a deflection angle on the display surface, and
a dimensionality of the display surface.
85. The LF display system of claim 55, further comprising:
a LF processing engine configured to determine a geometric orientation of the LF display system; and
wherein the holographic content is presented to the audience based on the determined geometric orientation of the LF display system.
86. The LF display system of claim 85, wherein the geometrical orientation includes any of:
a number of display panels of the LF display assembly,
a relative orientation of the display panels,
a height of the display panels,
a width of the display panels, and
a layout of the display panels.
87. The LF display system of claim 55, further comprising:
a LF processing engine configured to determine a configuration of the venue; and wherein the LF display assembly presents holographic content based on the determined configuration of the venue.
88. The LF display system of claim 87, wherein the configuration of the venue includes any of:
one or more holographic object volumes,
one or more viewing volumes, and
a location of the audience relative to the LF display assembly.
89. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein
the LF display assembly is configured to present acoustic data, and
the holographic content includes acoustic data such that the LF display system presents the holographic content and the acoustic data.
90. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein the presented holographic content includes a first type of energy and a second type of energy.
91. The LF display system of claim 90, wherein the first type of energy is electromagnetic energy and the second type of energy is ultrasonic energy.
92. The LF display system of claim 91, wherein the first type of energy and second type of energy are presented at the same location such that the LF display assembly presents a volumetric tactile surface.
93. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein
the LF display assembly is configured to record image data, and
the LF display assembly simultaneously presents holographic content and records image data.
94. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein
the LF display assembly is configured to record holographic content, and
the LF display assembly simultaneously presents and records holographic content.
95. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein the livestream comprising real-time holographic content is received in a first format, and the LF processing engine decodes the holographic content into a second format.
96. The LF display system of claim 95, wherein the first format is a vectorized data format and the second format is a rasterized data format.
97. The LF display system of claim 55, wherein the processing engine employs a proprietary codec to decode the streaming holographic content that is encoded by the same codec.
98. A light field (LF) generation system comprising:
a light field recording assembly configured to record one or more types of energy
representing an event in a venue;
a processing engine configured to convert the recorded energy into holographic content representing the performance; and
a network interface configured to transmit the holographic content to one or more LF display systems via a network.
99. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the event is one or more of:
a concert,
a show,
a performance, a scene, and
an event.
100. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the event includes one or more of:
a singer,
a band,
a magician,
an actor,
a dancer,
a comedian, and
a performer.
101. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the venue is any of:
a performance hall,
an event space,
a theater,
a concert hall,
a studio, and
a stage.
102. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the network is a public network.
103. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the network is a private network configured for transmitting holographic content.
104. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the processing engine employs a proprietary codec to encode the recorded energy as holographic content.
105. The LF generations system of claim 104, wherein the holographic content is encoded in a vectorized format.
106. The LF performance network system of claim 104, wherein the holographic content is encoded in a format that is decodable by a LF display system utilizing the proprietary codec.
107. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the light field recording assembly comprises:
one or more light field modules comprising one or more energy sensors configured to record electromagnetic energy as light field content, and
wherein the holographic content includes the light field content.
108. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the light field recording assembly comprises: one or more acoustic recording devices configured to record acoustic energy as audio content, and
wherein the holographic content includes the audio content.
109. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the light field recording assembly comprises:
one or more pressure sensors configured to record mechanical energy, and
wherein the holographic content includes instructions to generate mechanical energy to produce one or more tactile surfaces.
110. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the light field recording assembly comprises:
one or more recording modules, the one or more recording modules positioned around the venue such that the LF recording modules capture energy from the
performance at multiple viewpoints.
111. The LF generation system of claim 110, wherein the processing engine converts the energy from multiple viewpoints into the holographic content.
112. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the light field recording assembly comprises:
one or more two-dimensional cameras, each two-dimensional camera recording energy from the performance as one or more two-dimensional images.
113. The LF generation system of claim 112, wherein the processing engine converts the one or more two-dimensional images into holographic content.
114. The LF generation system of claim 113, wherein the processing engine employs a machine learning algorithm to generate the holographic content.
115. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the light field recording assembly comprises:
one or more depth sensors to determine a depth of an object.
116. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the light field recording assembly comprises:
one or more plenoptic camera systems to record light-field data.
117. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the LF generation system transmits the holographic content to a LF display system via the network in approximately real-time.
118. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the LF generation system stores the holographic content on a local storage device.
119. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the LF generation system transmits the holographic content to a network system for storage on a network storage system.
120. The LF generation system of claim 98, wherein the LF generation system transmits the holographic content to a LF display system in response to receiving a transaction fee.
</claims>
</document>
