<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SMITH & NEPHEW
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUNT ALLAN
DAGEVOS VAN RIJ JOHANNES
BELDING JONATHAN
LAY JONATHON
QUIST BRIAN
SMITH DAMIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73459014
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MONITORING AND TREATING DIABETIC FOOT ULCERS
</title>

<abstract>
In some aspects, a computer-implemented method is disclosed for gathering and processing sensor data to identify a risk of impacting or causing a skin injury. The computer- implemented method can include: receiving, via a computer network, sensor feature data representing output of a user sensor configured to be worn on a limb of a user; generating activity classification model output data using the sensor feature data and an activity classification model, the activity classification model output data representing likelihoods that the sensor feature data corresponds to each of a plurality of different activity classifications; determining an activity classification from the activity classification model output data; and transmitting, via the computer network, display data representing the activity classification to a computing device configured to present the display data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for gathering and processing sensor data to identify a risk of impacting or causing a skin injury, the system comprising computer-readable memory and one or more processors, the system being configured to:
obtain sensor feature data comprising a first set of feature data and a second set of feature data, the first set of feature data representing output of a user sensor configured to be worn on a limb of a user, the second set of feature data representing output of an offloading device sensor coupled to an offloading device that is configured to be worn on the limb;
determine an activity classification using the first set of feature data and an activity classification model,
wherein the activity classification model is configured to determine a degree to which the first set of feature data corresponds to each of a plurality of different activity classifications;
determine an offloading usage classification using the first set of feature data, the second set of feature data, and an offloading usage model,
wherein the offloading usage model is configured to determine a degree to which motion of the user sensor corresponds to motion of the offloading device sensor;
generate display data representing at least one of the activity classification or the offloading usage classification; and
transmit the display data to a computing device configured to present the display data.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the skin injury comprises a diabetic foot ulcer or a venous leg ulcer.
3. The system of claim 1 or 2, wherein the user sensor comprises a first accelerometer and a first magnetometer, and the offloading device sensor comprises a second accelerometer and a second magnetometer, the sensor feature data representing output from the first accelerometer, the second accelerometer, the first magnetometer, and the second magnetometer.
4. The system of claim 1 or any one or more preceding claims, being further configured to:
determine a subsequent activity classification using a third set of feature data and the activity classification model, the third set of feature data representing output of the user sensor; and
determine from the activity classification and the subsequent activity classification that a change in an activity of the user has occurred.
5. The system of claim 1 or any one or more preceding claims, being further configured to:
determine a subsequent offloading usage classification using a third set of feature data, a fourth set of feature data, and the offloading usage model,
wherein the third set of feature data represents output of the user sensor, and the fourth set of feature data represents output of the offloading device sensor; and determine from the offloading usage classification and the subsequent offloading usage classification that a change usage of the offloading device by the user has occurred.
6. The system of claim 1 or any one or more preceding claims, being further configured to:
generate activity model input data using the first set of feature data;
generate activity classification model output data using the activity model input data and the activity classification model; and
identify, from the activity classification model output data, a data element having a value that satisfies a classification criterion to determine the activity classification, the activity classification being associated with the data element.
7. The system of claim 1 or any one or more preceding claims, wherein the plurality of different activity classifications comprises a motion classification, a no motion with static weight classification, a no motion with variations in force classification, and a laying down classification.
8. The system of claim 1 or any one or more preceding claims, wherein the offloading usage model is configured to determine the degree to which motion and orientation of the user sensor corresponds to motion and orientation of the offloading device sensor.
9. The system of claim 1 or any one or more preceding claims, wherein the activity classification model comprises a decision tree, a neural network, or a support vector machine.
10. The system of claim 1 or any one or more preceding claims, wherein the activity classification model comprises a first decision tree configured to assign the first set of feature data to one of a plurality of different activity classifications, and the offloading usage model comprises a second decision tree configured to determine whether motion and orientation of the user sensor corresponds to motion and orientation of the offloading device sensor.
11. The system of claim 1 or any one or more preceding claims, wherein the offloading device comprises a removable cast.
12. A computer-implemented method for gathering and processing sensor data to identify a risk of impacting or causing a skin injury, the computer-implemented method comprising:
receiving, via a computer network, sensor feature data representing output of a user sensor configured to be worn on a limb of a user;
generating, by one or more computer processors, activity classification model output data using the sensor feature data and an activity classification model, the activity classification model output data representing likelihoods that the sensor feature data corresponds to each of a plurality of different activity classifications, wherein the plurality of different activity classifications comprises:
a first activity classification representing motion of the limb; and a second activity classification representing no motion of the limb with weight loading the limb;
determining, by the one or more computer processors, an activity classification from the activity classification model output data; and transmitting, via the computer network, display data representing the activity classification to a computing device configured to present the display data.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, further comprising identifying, by the one or more computer processors, the risk of impacting or causing the skin injury, the skin injury being a diabetic foot ulcer or a venous leg ulcer.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 12 or 13, wherein said determining the activity classification comprises determining that the activity classification model output data indicates the sensor feature data likely corresponds to a third activity classification representing no motion with variations in force on the limb of the user.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 12 or any one or more of claims 13 to 14, wherein said determining comprises determining that the activity classification model output data indicates the sensor feature data likely corresponds to a fourth activity classification representing that the user is lying down.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 12 or any one or more of claims 13 to 15, further comprising:
determining, by the one or more computer processors, a subsequent activity classification using second sensor feature data and the activity classification model, the second sensor feature data representing output of the user sensor; and
determining, by the one or more computer processors from the activity classification and the subsequent activity classification, that a change in activity of the user has occurred.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 12 or any one or more of claims 13 to 16, further comprising:
receiving, via the computer network, second sensor feature data representing output of an offloading device sensor coupled to an offloading device that is configured to be worn on the limb; and
determining, by the one or more computer processors, an offloading usage classification using the sensor feature data, the second sensor feature data, and an offloading usage model, wherein the offloading usage model is configured to determine a degree to which motion of the user sensor corresponds to motion of the offloading device sensor.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the offloading usage model is configured to determine the degree to which motion and orientation of the user sensor corresponds to motion and orientation of the offloading device sensor.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 12 or any one or more of claims 13 to 18, further comprising:
receiving, via the computer network, second sensor feature data representing output of an offloading device sensor coupled to an offloading device that is configured to be worn on the limb;
determining, by the one or more computer processors, a subsequent offloading usage classification using the second sensor feature data and the offloading usage model, the second sensor feature data representing output of the offloading device sensor; and
determining, by the one or more computer processors from the offloading usage classification and the subsequent offloading usage classification, that a change in usage of the offloading device by the user has occurred.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 12 or any one or more of claims 13 to 19, further comprising loading, by the one or more computer processors, the activity classification model, the activity classification model comprising a decision tree, a neural network, or a support vector machine.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 12 or any one or more of claims 13 to 20, further comprising loading, by the one or more computer processors, the activity classification model, the activity classification model comprising a decision tree configured to assign the sensor feature data to one of the plurality of different activity classifications.
22. A non-transitory computer readable medium having an application stored thereon for gathering and processing sensor data to identify a risk of impacting or causing a skin injury, the application, when executed by one or more processors of a computing device, causing the computing device to: receive, via a computer network, sensor feature data representing output of a user sensor configured to be worn on a limb of a user;
generate activity classification model output data using the sensor feature data and an activity classification model, the activity classification model output data representing likelihoods that the sensor feature data corresponds to each of a plurality of different activity classifications,
wherein the plurality of different activity classifications comprises:
a first activity classification representing motion of the limb; and a second activity classification representing no motion of the limb with weight loading the limb;
determine an activity classification from the activity classification model output data; and
transmit, via the computer network, display data representing the activity classification to a second computing device configured to present the display data.
23. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 22, wherein the plurality of different activity classifications comprises a third activity classification representing no motion of the limb with variations in force on the limb.
24. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 22 or 23, wherein the plurality of different activity classifications comprises a third activity classification representing the user is lying down.
25. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 22 or any one or more of claims 23 to 24, wherein the activity classification model comprises a decision tree, a neural network, or a support vector machine.
26. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 22 or any one or more of claims 23 to 25, wherein the activity classification model comprises a decision tree configured to assign the sensor feature data to one of the plurality of different activity classifications.
27. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 22 or any one or more of claims 23 to 26, wherein the application, when executed by the one or more computer processors, causes the computing device to: determine a subsequent activity classification using second sensor feature data and the activity classification model, the second sensor feature data representing output of the user sensor; and
determine from the activity classification and the subsequent activity classification that a change in an activity of the user has occurred.
28. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 22 or any one or more of claims 23 to 27, wherein the application, when executed by the one or more computer processors, causes the computing device to:
receive, via the computer network, second sensor feature data representing output of an offloading device sensor coupled to an offloading device that is configured to be worn by the limb; and
determine an offloading usage classification using the sensor feature data, the second sensor feature data, and an offloading usage model,
wherein the offloading usage model is configured to determine a degree to which motion of the user sensor corresponds to motion of the offloading device sensor.
29. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 28, wherein the offloading usage model is configured to determine the degree to which motion and orientation of the user sensor corresponds to motion and orientation of the offloading device sensor.
30. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 22 or any one or more of claims 23 to 29, wherein the application, when executed by the one or more computer processors, causes the computing device to:
receive, via the computer network, second sensor feature data representing output of an offloading device sensor coupled to an offloading device that is configured to be worn by the limb;
determine a subsequent offloading usage classification using second sensor feature data and the offloading usage model, the second sensor feature data representing output of the offloading device sensor; and determine from the offloading usage classification and the subsequent offloading usage classification that a change in usage of the offloading device by the user has occurred.
31. An apparatus, system, method, or non-transitory computer readable medium as disclosed or illustrated herein.
</claims>
</document>
