<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F02D17/02,F02D41/00,F02D41/02,F02D41/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CUMMINS
TULA TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SRINIVASAN, VIJAY
SERRANO, LOUIS J.
WILCUTTS, MARK A.
CARLSON, STEVE E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72661581
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SKIP FIRE AND SKIP BRAKING APPARATUS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
In one aspect, a skip fire engine controller is described. The skip fire engine controller includes a skip fire module arranged to determine an operational firing fraction and associated cylinder load for delivering a desired positive torque engine output. The skip fire engine controller skip can also cause the engine to produce negative torque by operating at least some of the engine's cylinder in a compression release braking mode.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A platform powered by a skip fire controlled internal combustion engine having a plurality of working chambers that provide motive power capable of moving the platform comprising:
a sensor or model that outputs a signal indicative of a weight of the platform; and
an engine controller that determines a skip fire profile which includes an operational firing fraction and a working chamber load, wherein engine operation at the skip fire profile produces an acceptable level of noise, vibration, and harshness and results in combustion conditions in fired working chambers closer to an optimal combustion condition as compared to any other possible skip fire profile, wherein the skip firing profile is adjusted based at least in part on the signal indicative of the platform weight.
2. The platform of claim 1, wherein the platform is selected from a group consisting of a motor vehicle, a tractor trailer, a tractor, a delivery truck, a locomotive, a ship, and an aircraft.
3. The platform of any of the preceding claims wherein the allowed working chamber load increases as the platform weight increases.
4. The platform of any of the preceding claims, wherein the skip fire profile delivers an engine output that substantially matches a requested engine output.
5. The platform of claim 4, wherein the skip fire profile delivers the requested engine output at the best fuel economy of any possible skip fire profile.
6. The platform of any of the preceding claims, wherein the internal combustion engine is a spark ignition engine or a compression ignition engine.
7. The platform of any of the preceding claims, wherein the internal combustion engine is located in a first unit and the first unit pulls a second unit, the second unit being connected to the first unit through a coupling that allows the second unit to track the first unit through turns.
8. The platform of any of the preceding claims, wherein the model uses as an input a measured fluctuation in the rotational speed of a rotating element.
9. The platform of any of the preceding claims, wherein the internal combustion engine is mounted to the platform.
10. A method of operating a skip fire controlled internal combustion engine having a plurality of working chambers that provide motive power capable of moving a platform comprising:
receiving a signal indicative of a weight of the platform; and
determining a skip fire profile which includes an operational firing fraction and a working chamber load, wherein engine operation at the skip fire profile produces an acceptable level of noise, vibration, and harshness and results in combustion conditions in fired working chambers closer to an optimal combustion condition as compared to any other possible skip fire profile, wherein the skip firing profile is adjusted based at least in part on the signal indicative of the platform weight.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the selection of the operational firing fraction is based on at least one table indicative of allowable firing fractions for a set of engine operating parameters and performing a vehicle weight adjustment of the at least one table.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein a correction factor to the at least one table is selected based on the vehicle weight.
13. The method of any of claims 10-12, wherein the selection of the operational firing fraction is based on a set of tables for different vehicle weight ranges and a selection is made of at least one table of the set of tables based on the vehicle weight.
14. The method of any of claims 10-13, wherein the selection of the operational firing fraction involves selecting a lookup table, from a plurality of lookup tables, based on the vehicle weight.
15. The method of any of claims 10-14, wherein the selection of the operational firing fraction is based at least in part on a system excitation model of a coupling of engine excitations into a vehicle cabin as a function of the vehicle weight.
16. The method of any of claims 10-15, wherein the optimal combustion condition is based at least in part on operating the engine in the most fuel-efficient manner.
17. The method of any of claims 10-16, wherein the optimal combustion condition is based at least in part on an air/fuel ratio or aftertreatment element temperature.
18. A method of adjusting a powertrain parameter of a powertrain whose value had been previously determined in a calibration procedure with a baseline vehicle weight comprising:
operating an internal combustion engine to provide a requested torque to the powertrain using a skip fire profile that operates all fired working chambers of the internal combustion engine at combustion conditions closer to an optimal combustion condition as compared to all other skip fire profiles that provide the requested torque and operate at an acceptable noise, vibration, and harshness level;
determining a current vehicle weight; and
adjusting the powertrain parameter based at least in part on the current vehicle weight.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the powertrain parameter is selected from a group consisting of a powertrain slip, an operational firing fraction, and a cylinder load.
20. A method of selecting an operational skip fire profile suitable for use in operating an internal combustion engine having a plurality of working chambers in a skip fire manner to produce a desired engine output, the method comprising:
determining a desired engine output;
monitoring a vehicle weight; and
selecting a plurality of candidate firing fractions from an allowed list of firing fractions;
calculating a candidate cylinder load for each of the plurality of candidate firing fractions such that the combination of the candidate cylinder load and each associated candidate firing fraction substantially yields the desired engine output, each such combination being a candidate skip fire profile; and
selecting one of the candidate skip fire profiles as the operational skip fire profile, wherein the selection of the operation skip fire profile depends at least in part on the vehicle weight; and
operating the internal combustion engine with the selected operational skip fire profile.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising:
determining which of the candidate skip fire profiles operates with a working chamber load closest to optimal combustion characteristics; and
selecting the candidate skip fire profile which operates with the working chamber load closest to optimal combustion characteristics as the operational skip fire profile.
22. A skip fire engine controller for an internal combustion engine mounted to a vehicle comprising:
a lookup table, wherein the lookup table is embodied in a computer readable media and includes table entries that indicate different maximum allowable cylinder loads at different engine speeds, transmission gears, firing fractions, and vehicle weights;
a skip fire profile module that is arranged to determine an operational firing fraction suitable for delivering a requested engine output using the lookup table to determine the operational firing fraction; and
a firing controller that is arranged to direct firings in a skip fire manner that delivers the operational firing fraction.
23. A method of operating an internal combustion engine having a plurality of working chambers mounted to a vehicle comprising:
receiving a zero or negative torque request;
deciding whether it is appropriate to have the internal combustion engine rotate without firing any working cycles; and
if operation without firing any working cycles is appropriate, operating the internal combustion engine in a deceleration cylinder cut off mode or a skip cylinder braking mode depending on the magnitude of the torque request, wherein selected working cycles of selected working chambers are operated in a compression release braking mode during operation in the skip cylinder braking mode.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein variables affecting the decision whether it is appropriate to have the internal combustion engine rotate without firing any working cycles are selected from a group consisting of:
(a) an engine speed;
(b) an aftertreatment element temperature;
(c) a turbocharger rotational speed;
(d) a transmission gear setting; (e) a regulation covering the use of compression release braking at the vehicle's current location;
(f) road grade; and
(g) a vehicle weight.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the vehicle weight is determined by measuring a torsional speed fluctuation of a rotating component in the vehicle powertrain.
26. The method of any of claims 23-25, wherein the internal combustion engine is a compression ignition engine or a spark ignition engine.
27. The method of any of claims 23-26, wherein if the magnitude of the torque request is zero the internal combustion engine is operated in the deceleration cylinder cut off mode.
28. The method of any of claims 23-27, wherein if the magnitude of the torque request is greater than zero the internal combustion engine is operated in the skip cylinder compression braking mode.
29. The method of claim 28, further comprising operating selected working cycles of selected working chambers with the working cycle pumping.
30. The method of claim 28, further comprising operating selected working cycles of selected working chambers with the working cycle deactivated.
31. The method of claim 28, further comprising operating selected working cycles of selected working chambers with the working cycle deactivated and other selected working cycles of selected working chambers with the working cycles pumping.
32. The method of claim 31 wherein a pattern of compression release braking working cycles, deactivated working cycles, and pumping working cycles is based at least in part on maintaining a turbocharger rotation rate above a threshold value.
33. The method of any of claim 23-32, further determining a density of engine working cycles using compression release braking based on the magnitude of the negative torque request.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein the density of engine working cycles using compression release braking increases with the magnitude of the negative torque request.
35. The method of claim 33, wherein the density of engine working cycles using compression release braking is based at least in part on a parameter selected from a group consisting of engine speed, vehicle weight, and the presence or absence of a towed trailer.
36. The method of any of claim 23-35, further comprising determining a pattern of the selected engine compression release braking working cycles and not fired working cycles using a first order sigma delta converter or a look-up table.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the pattern of selected compression release braking working cycles is based at least in part on the acoustic response characteristics of the exhaust system.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein if the acoustic response characteristics of the exhaust system are modified, the vehicle undergoes a recalibration to determine patterns of the selected engine compression release braking working cycles which provides acceptable noise levels.
39. An engine controller for an internal combustion engine having a plurality of working chambers mounted to a vehicle comprising:
an operational skip fire profile module arranged to determine whether it is appropriate to have the internal combustion engine rotate without firing any working cycles, wherein if it is determined that operation without firing any working cycles is appropriate, the operational skip fire profile module directs the internal combustion engine to operate in a deceleration cylinder cut off mode or a skip cylinder braking mode depending on a magnitude of a torque request, wherein selected working cycles of selected working chambers are operated in a compression release braking mode during operation in the skip cylinder braking mode.
40. The engine controller of claim 39, wherein the internal combustion engine is a turbocharged, compression-ignition engine.
41. The engine controller of claim 39 or 40, wherein the operational skip fire profile module receives a plurality of input signals to help determine whether operation without firing any working cycles is appropriate, wherein the input signals are selected from a group consisting of:
(a) an accelerator pedal position;
(b) a brake pedal position;
(c) an engine speed;
(d) an aftertreatment element temperature;
(e) a turbocharger rotational speed; (f) a transmission gear setting;
(g) a regulation covering the use of compression release braking at the vehicle's current location;
(h) road grade; and
(i) a vehicle weight.
42. The engine controller of claim 41, wherein if the accelerator pedal position is not depressed and the brake pedal is not depressed the internal combustion engine operates in a deceleration cylinder cut off mode.
43. The engine controller of claim 41, wherein if the accelerator pedal position is not depressed and the brake pedal is depressed the internal combustion engine operates in a skip cylinder compression braking mode.
44. The engine controller of any of claims 39-43, wherein the operational skip fire profile module uses a first order sigma delta converter or a look-up table to determine a pattern of the selected engine compression release braking working cycles and not fired working cycles when operating in the skip cylinder compression braking mode.
45. The engine controller of any of claims 39, wherein the internal combustion engine is connected to a powertrain and the powertrain includes an electric motor/generator that can add or subtract torque from the powertrain by storing or removing energy from a battery.
46. The engine controller of claim 45, wherein a magnitude of the torque added or subtracted from the powertrain by the electric motor/generator is based at least in part on a state of charge of the battery or a temperature of the battery.
</claims>
</document>
