<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W24/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANAND PUSHKALA, SRI HARSHA
CHOWDHURY, ANKITA
JAMMULA, VINOD KUMAR
REBOREDO, DAVID
SHEHATA, AMR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64959386
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM TO PREDICT NETWORK PERFORMANCE OF A FIXED WIRELESS NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems to predict network performance of a fixed wireless network is disclosed. In one embodiment, a method is performed by an electronic device, the method comprises receiving data of a fixed wireless network; modeling the data using a plurality of functions, where the modeling comprises identifying a prediction function that provides a best approximation of the data based on a user preference of approximation speed and accuracy; predicting a network performance value in a future time using the prediction function; and notifying when the predicted network performance value fails to meet a threshold value.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method performed by an electronic device to predict network performance of a fixed wireless network, the method comprising:
receiving (602) data of the fixed wireless network;
modeling (604) the data using a plurality of functions, wherein the modeling comprises identifying a prediction function that provides a best approximation of the data based on a user preference of approximation speed and accuracy; predicting (606) a network performance value in a future time using the prediction
function; and
notifying (608) when the predicted network performance value fails to meet a threshold value.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the network performance value is a value for traffic throughput, or a value for signal strength.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the data includes one or more of weather condition samples, man-made structure data sample, radio condition samples, or geographic data samples.
4. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the data comprises data from a single geographic area or from a single time duration.
5. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein identifying the prediction function that provides the best approximation of the data comprises:
providing (612) the data to an offline computing system;
approximating (614) the data using the plurality of functions simultaneously; and identifying (616) the prediction function using an accuracy measure of the approximation of the plurality of functions based on the user preference.
6. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the plurality of functions comprises:
a function determining a moving average of the data;
a function determining a weighted moving average of the data;
a function determining a trend of the data using exponential smoothing;
a function determining seasonality of the data using Holt Winters filtering; and a function determining a seasonality of the data based on lagging data values.
7. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the data comprises a same type of data as that of the network performance value.
8. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the data comprises a plurality of types of data to predict the network performance value.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the plurality of functions comprises:
a multi-variate linear regression (MLR) function, wherein each type of the data is a
variable of the MLR function; and
an autoregressive integrated moving average function with an external factor
(ARIMAX), wherein each type of the data is a variable of the ARIMAX function.
10. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the notifying comprises using a Representational state transfer (REST) application programming interface (API).
11. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the user preference of approximation speed and accuracy is provided through a Representational state transfer (REST) application programming interface (API).
12. An electronic device to be deployed in a fixed wireless network, comprising:
a processor (742) and computer-readable storage medium (749) that provides
instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the electronic device to perform:
receiving (602) data of the fixed wireless network;
modeling (604) the data using a plurality of functions, wherein the modeling comprises identifying a prediction function that provides a best approximation of the data based on a user preference of approximation speed and accuracy;
predicting (606) a network performance value in a future time using the
prediction function; and
notifying (608) when the predicted network performance value fails to meet a threshold value.
13. The electronic device of claim 12 or 13, wherein the network performance value is a value for traffic throughput, or a value for signal strength.
14. The electronic device of claim 12 or 13, wherein the data includes one or more of weather condition samples, man-made structure data sample, radio condition samples, or geographic data samples.
15. The electronic device of claim 12 or 13, wherein the identification of the prediction function is to perform:
providing (612) the data to an offline computing system;
approximating (614) the data using the plurality of functions simultaneously; and identifying (616) the prediction function using an accuracy measure of the approximation of the plurality of functions based on the user preference.
16. The electronic device of claim 12 or 13, wherein the data comprises a plurality of types of data that are distinct from that of the network performance value.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium (749) that provides instructions that, when executed by a processor of an electronic device, cause the electronic device to perform: receiving (602) data of a fixed wireless network;
modeling (604) the data using a plurality of functions, wherein the modeling comprises identifying a prediction function that provides a best approximation of the data based on a user preference of approximation speed and accuracy; predicting (606) a network performance value in a future time using the prediction
function; and
notifying (608) when the predicted network performance value fails to meet a threshold value.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the data includes one or more of weather condition samples, man-made structure data sample, radio condition samples, or geographic data samples.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17 or 18, where the plurality of functions comprises:
a function determining a moving average of the data;
a function determining a weighted moving average of the data;
a function determining a trend of the data using exponential smoothing;
a function determining seasonality of the data using Holt Winters filtering; and a function determining a seasonality of the data based on lagging data values.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17 or 18, wherein the user preference of approximation speed and accuracy is provided through a Representational state transfer (REST) application programming interface (API).
</claims>
</document>
