<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WORKMERK
</assignee>

<inventors>
CIRINO, ROBERT
MURPHY, PATRICK
NARKE, JOSEPH
NEW, JOHN
PARKER, STEVEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70051716
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WORKMERK FLOWCHART
</title>

<abstract>
A system comprising at least one database and a machine learning computing system to generate optimized learning modules with a track cycle comprising at least one nano learning module, at least one micro learning module, and at least one macro learning module; wherein a track cycle further comprises at least one assessment; wherein upon the completion of an assessment, said database is updated to confirm that a learning module is completed; wherein the machine learning computing system identifies an optimized next track cycle; wherein the machine learning comprises collecting data from at least one user comprising the user's skills and data, and generating optimized outputs for the user based upon expected returns based upon taking further actions as determined by an optimized output; and wherein in certain elements, a robot embodies the machine learning computer and is able to gather data in real-time to further optimize the optimized output.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of increasing retention of data comprising: a. identifying the data to be retained by a user; b. providing the data to the user; c. providing a reinforcement action to said user in the form of a notification on an electronic device; and d. wherein providing said reinforcement action to said user increases retention of the data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the data is selected from the group consisting of a standard operating procedure (SOP); a task to complete; instructions; or facts.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising at least a second reinforcement action; wherein said second reinforcement action is different than the original reinforcement action.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the data is stored electronically within a server; and wherein the reinforcement is stored within said server.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the reinforcement is provided upon the occurrence of a traceable event.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the occurrence the traceable event is defined within a database.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the reinforcement is provided upon the electronic device being placed within a predetermined proximity to a location.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the location is defined by the group consisting of a geofence, a WiFi signal, an RFID signal, a wireless signal, a radio signal, or a beacon.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the reinforcement is provided at a predetermined time.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the data to be retained is defined within an SOP, wherein an error in the SOP is defined as a traceable event, and wherein the reinforcement is provided upon the occurrence of the error in the SOP.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the error in the SOP is remedied after receiving the reinforcement.
12. A system for increasing retention of data comprising a database and at least one electronic device capable of sending and receiving wireless notifications of information from said database, wherein a data point to be retained by a user is loaded onto said server; a notification is pushed to said user and received on said electronic device, said notificaiton comprising material to reinforce the data.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein said electronic device is selected from the group consisting of a smartphone or a wearable electronic device.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein said electronic device comprises a mechanism to determine location; wherein the database provides for said notificaiton to be pushed to said user upon entry to a particular location; and wherein said notification is pushed to said electronic device upon accessing said location.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein said electronic device and database comprises a time keeping mechanism, and wherein upon the occurrence of a predetermined time, a notification is pushed from said database to said electronic device.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein said material is selected from the group consisting of a video, SOP, facts, lists, tasks, or combinations thereof.
17. A system for creating time and location based records comprising: a database, and an electronic device, said electronic comprising a software application having a graphical user interphase for sending and receiving data from said database; said electronic device comprising a timing mechanism and a location defining mechanism; said graphical user interface defining at least one task to be completed; said graphical user interface having a binary feature for annotating the completion of said task, said binary feature capable of being annotated only upon meeting either a predetermined location or a predetermined time, wherien upon meeting said predetermined location or said predetermined time, said binary feature is authorized to allow annotation of the task.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein said graphical user interphase displays the requirements to allow the binary feature to be authorized.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein both the time and location must be simultaneously met to allow the binary feature to be authorized.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein upon the annotation of the task, the time and location of said annotation is recorded within said database.
21. The system of claim 17 wherein the task to be completed is displayed only upon meeting either the time or location criteria, wherein the task to be displayed is provided as a notification onto said electronic device.
22. A method of increasing the retention of a learned skill comprising: teaching a skill to a user; providing a digital device to said user, said digital device capable of receiving a message; said digital device having criteria defining a requirement to send said message; sending said message upon occurrence of said criteria.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein the criteria are location-based.
24. The method of claim 22 wherein the criteria are time-based.
25. The method of claim 22 wherein the digital device is a handheld device.
26. The method of claim 22 wherein the digital device is a wearable device.
27. The method of claim 22 wherein the message comprises learning materials.
28. The method of claim 27 wherein the learning materials comprise a video, a checklist, a task, or an SOP.
29. A system comprising at least one database and a machine learning computing system to generate optimized learning modules within a track cycle; wherein said track cycle comprises at least one nano learning module, at least one micro learning module, and at least one macro learning module; wherein a track cycle further comprises at least one assessment corresponding to the at least one nano learning module, the at least one micro learning module, or the at least one macro learning module; wherein upon the completion of an assessment, said database is updated to confirm that a learning module, made up of the combination of the at least one nano learning module, at least one micro learning module, and the at least one macro learning module is completed; wherein the machine learning computing system identifies an optimized next track cycle to optimize the next learning module.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein there are a plurality of nano and micro learning modules.
31. The system of claim 29, wherein the macro learning module is performed in-person. In preferred embodiments, the nano learning modules are less than one-minute in length.
32. The system of claim 29, wherein the micro learning modules are less than five-minutes in length.
33. A method of optimizing learning for an individual comprising: uploading a set of information known by said individual to a database; uploading a set of information to be learned to said same database; generating a track cycle comprising a first learning module, said track cycle comprising at least one nano learning module, at least one micro learning module, and at least one macro learning module; wherein upon completion of the at least one nano, micro, and macro learning modules, completing at least one assessment; updating the database, upon satisfactory completion of the assessment, with the first learning module from to be learned to known information; utilizing a machine learning computing system to identify the next learning module within a subsequent track cycle to be completed to optimize learning efficiency.
34. The method of claim 33, comprising wherein the set of information to be learned comprises a ranking of importance of information, wherein more important information ranking can be utilized to determine optimized learning efficiency.
35. The method of claim 33, wherein the optimized learning efficiency is determined by a corporate structure.
36. The method of claim 33, wherein a track cycle comprises a plurality of individual users, wherein the optimized learning module is dependent on the greatest gains for the entire team and not individually.
37. An optimized learning method for learning information in an optimized manner comprising at least one nano, at least one micro, and at least one macro learning module, wherein a subsequent nano, micro, or macro session is determined based upon an assessment of the prior session.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein an assessment being completed is updated into a database from an unknown skill to a known skill, and new information is presented comprising a second at least one nano, micro, and macro learning module.
39. A method, of any one of claims 1-38, comprising an AI trained neural network, said neural network comprising a plurality of data within a database for storing data, wherein the database is populated with electronic resumes or skills of individuals that can be evaluated through the database; and wherein the database can be further populated with biometric data and other data collected from wearable devices and from sensors both on a user and collected from exterior sensors; wherein the AI utilizes machine learning to determine optimized output based upon the collected data sets within the database.
40. The method of claim 39, wherein the optimized output is based upon collected data from at least one wearable device, wherein the data is biometric data that is populated into the database and calculates an optimized output based on the biometric data in real time.
41. The method of claim 39, wherein the optimized output is communicated back to the user of the wearable device on said wearable device in real-time.
42. A method of any one of claims 1-41, comprising at least one external sensor is arranged to collect data from a space; wherein the data from the space is inputted into a database and can be utilized for generating an optimized output in real-time.
43. A robot, comprising the methods of any one of claims 1-42, wherein said robot comprises at least one sensor, said robot being capable of utilizing said sensor to collect data from a space and to populate data back to a database for generating an optimized output.
44. The method of claim 39, wherein the database comprises a plurality of different user profiles and the task is to match users whom work well together; wherein he database can define all interactions where users worked well, and where users did not work well, as defined by a metric; and then use machine learning to train the AI to pair users based upon that training, corresponding to the skills, education, personality, and location as data points.
45. The method of claim 43, wherein the optimized output is generated to a user.
46. The method of claim 45, wherein the optimized output is generated to optimize a sales presentation to a plurality of users.
47. The method of claim 46, wherein the data collected from a space comprises eye contact, voice tone, facial features, body posture and biometric data of at least a second user within a space, wherein the data collected is utilized to optimize a presentation to the at least a second user in real-time.
48. A robot, comprising elements of any one of claims 42-47, comprising a visual sensor and a audio sensor, and comprising a speaker to generate audible sounds.
49. A system comprising at least one database and a machine learning computing system to generate optimized learning modules with a track cycle; wherein a track cycle comprises at least one nano learning module, at least one micro learning module, and at least one macro learning module; wherein a track cycle further comprises at least one assessment corresponding to the at least one nano learning module, the at least one micro learning module, or the at least one macro learning module; wherein upon the completion of an assessment, said database is updated to confirm that a learning module, made up of the combination of the at least one nano learning module, at least one micro learning module, and the at least one macro learning module is completed; wherein the machine learning computing system identifies an optimized next track cycle to optimize the next learning module.
50. The system of claim 49, wherein there are a plurality of nano and micro learning modules.
51. The system of claim 49, wherein the macro learning module is performed in-person. In preferred embodiments, the nano learning modules are less than one-minute in length.
52. The system of claim 49, wherein the micro learning modules are less than five-minutes in length.
53. A method of engaging healthcare wellness comprising: a wearable device; a database with healthcare requirements; capturing data from said wearable device and comparing said data to a predetermined optimal data for a user; providing a notification to said user if a data point is out of line; providing instructions to rectify the out of line data point; confirming when the data point is in line.
54. The method of claim 53, wherein the data comprising biometric data.
55. The method of claim 54, wherein the data comprising confirmation of medication consumption.
56. The method of claim 55, wherein a medication consumption can be tied to a pill dispenser that can be actuated and recorded within the database to confirm that the medication is dispensed.
57. The method of claim 56, wherein a user must confirm that medication was consumed.
58. The method of claim 57, wherein the wearable device receives confirmation or provides a reminder or both to a user to take medication or confirm the consumption of medication.
59. A method of manufacturing culture comprising: generating a cultural goal for a company; uploading a plurality of mosaics to a database, corresponding to the mosaics of employees at the company; determining an optimized track cycle to generate a cultural response in the employees based upon the totality of mosaics; beginning a track cycle among at least a portion of employees at a company; completing said track cycle; performing an analysis of the next optimized track cycle to develop culture.
60. The method of claim 59, wherein the cultural change may be more travel, more exercise, reduced smoking, healthier food consumption, healthier beverage consumption, greater team dynamics, greater sharing among team members, greater performance, as non-limiting examples, or combinations thereof.
61. The method of claims 59 or 60 wherein gamification is provided to incentivize a cultural change among individuals or teams within a company.
62. The method of claim 61, wherein a cultural change is increased health and wellbeing comprising improved food consumption, healthier beverage consumption, and more exercise; wherein a wearable device is utilized to track and reward points for certain actions; wherein an action of exercise is worth a point, an action of water is worth a point, an action of a salad is worth a point; and certain negative actions are worth -1 point, such as smoking, alcohol consumption, or soda consumption; wherein gamification provides for an incentive once reached at an individual or team wide level.
63. The method of claim 62 wherein a check-in station allows for capture of points at a water station, or a gym, and wherein points from a food provider are electronically scored.
64. The method of claim 63 wherein a check-in station is provided for entrance and exit to a smoking area for negative points.
</claims>
</document>
