<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W28/02,H04W72/00,H04W72/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
EL ESSAILI, ALI
PALAIOS, ALEXANDROS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66251791
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TRAFFIC FLOW MANAGEMENT IN A CELLULAR NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a method of managing traffic flows in a cellular network by a traffic flow management node. For each tile of a plurality of tiles of the cellular network, a traffic flow in the tile is measured (200) based on a location and corresponding velocity of at least one user equipment in the cellular network from information provided by the at least one user equipment, subsequent traffic flow in the tile is estimated (202) based on a comparison of the measured traffic flow in the tile to one or more previously measured traffic flows in the tile and an indication of the estimated subsequent traffic flow in the tile is transmitted (204) to a resource management node enabling management of resources related to the traffic flows in at least one tile of the cellular network by said resource management node.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of managing traffic flows in a cellular network by a traffic flow management node, the method comprising:
for each tile of a plurality of tiles of the cellular network:
measuring (200, 402) a traffic flow in the tile based on a location and corresponding velocity of at least one user equipment in the cellular network from information provided by the at least one user equipment;
estimating (202, 404) subsequent traffic flow in the tile based on a comparison of the measured traffic flow in the tile to one or more previously measured traffic flows in the tile; and
transmitting (204, 406) an indication of the estimated subsequent traffic flow in the tile to a resource management node enabling management (414) of resources related to the traffic flows in at least one tile of the cellular network by said resource management node.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1 , the method comprising:
estimating the subsequent traffic flow in the tile based on one or more spatial differences and/or one or more temporal differences identified by the comparison of the measured traffic flow in the tile to the one or more previously measured traffic flows in the tile.
3. A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, the method comprising:
using a machine learning algorithm to estimate the subsequent traffic flow in the tile.
4. A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein:
the estimation of the subsequent traffic flow in the tile is an estimation of the subsequent traffic flow in the tile at a first time; and
the method comprises:
updating (410) the estimation of the subsequent traffic flow in the tile based on an actual measurement of the traffic flow in the tile at the first time; and
transmitting (412) an indication of the updated estimation of the subsequent traffic flow in the tile to the resource management node enabling management (414) of resources related to the traffic flows in at least one tile of the cellular network by said resource management node.
5. A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein:
the management of resources related to the traffic flows in at least one tile of the cellular network comprises:
allocating resources in the at least one tile to manage the traffic flows in the at least one tile; and/or
provisioning a quality of service in the at least one tile to manage the traffic flows in the at least one tile.
6. A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein said resources comprise resources for vehicle-to-everything, V2X, communication.
7. A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein:
the plurality of tiles are defined by a grid.
8. A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein:
the at least one user equipment is served by at least one of a plurality of base stations, each having a coverage area, and wherein the plurality of base stations cover the coverage area of the cellular network.
9. A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein:
the plurality of tiles of the cellular network span the coverage areas of the plurality of base stations.
10. A method as claimed in claim 8 or 9, wherein:
the coverage areas of the plurality of base stations are overlapping.
1 1. A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein:
the information provided by the at least one user equipment (10) is received from the at least one user equipment (10) and/or from at least one location service function node.
12. A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one user equipment comprise one or more vehicles and/or one or more mobile devices.
13. A traffic flow management node (20) configured to operate in accordance with any of claims 1 to 12.
14. A traffic flow management node (20) according to claim 13, wherein the traffic flow management node comprises:
processing circuitry (22); and
at least one memory (24) for storing instructions which, when executed by the processing circuitry (22), cause the traffic flow management node (20) to operate in accordance with any of claims 1 to 12.
15. A traffic flow management node (20) as claimed in claim 13 or 14, wherein the traffic flow management node is an application server.
16. A traffic flow management node as claimed in any of claims 13 to 15, wherein the traffic flow management node is a node of a cellular network or a node outside the cellular network.
17. A method of managing traffic flows in a cellular network by a resource management node, the method comprising:
managing (300, 414) resources related to the traffic flows in at least one tile of a plurality of tiles of the cellular network based on an estimated subsequent traffic flow for each tile of the plurality of tiles of the cellular network,
wherein the estimated subsequent traffic flow for each tile of the plurality of tiles of the cellular network is based on a comparison of a traffic flow in the tile measured based on a location and corresponding velocity of at least one user equipment in the cellular network to one or more previously measured traffic flows in the tile; and
providing (302, 414) the managed resources to one or more user equipments in the at least one tile of the plurality of tiles of the cellular network.
18. A method as claimed in claim 17, wherein:
the estimated subsequent traffic flow in the tile is an estimation of the subsequent traffic flow in the tile at a first time; and the method comprises:
managing resources related to the traffic flows in at least one tile of the plurality of tiles of the cellular network based on an updated estimation of the subsequent traffic flow for each tile of the plurality of tiles of the cellular network, wherein the updated estimation of the subsequent traffic flow for each tile of the plurality of tiles of the cellular network is based on an actual measurement of the traffic flow in the tile at the first time.
19. A method as claimed in claim 17 or 18, wherein:
managing resources related to the traffic flows in at least one tile comprises: allocating resources in the at least one tile to manage the traffic flows in the at least one tile; and/or
provisioning a quality of service in the at least one tile to manage the traffic flows in the at least one tile.
20. A resource management node (30) configured to operate in accordance with any of claims 17 to 19.
21. A resource management node (30) according to claim 20, wherein the resource management node (30) comprises:
processing circuitry (32); and
at least one memory (34) for storing instructions which, when executed by the processing circuitry (32), cause the resource management node (30) to operate in accordance with any of claims 17 to 19.
22. A system (100) comprising any one or more of:
at least one traffic flow management node (20) as claimed in any of claims 13 to
16;
at least one user equipment (10) configured to connect to the system and provide information indicative of a location and corresponding velocity of the at least one user equipment; and
at least one resource management node (30) as claimed in any of claims 20 to
21 .
23. A system comprising: processing circuitry; and
at least one memory for storing instructions which, when executed by the processing circuitry, cause the system to operate in accordance with any one or more of claims 1-12 and 17-19.
24. A computer program comprising instructions which, when executed by processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to perform the method according to any one or more of claims 1 -12 and 17-19. 25. A computer program product, embodied on a non-transitory machine-readable medium, comprising instructions which are executable by processing circuitry to cause the processing circuitry to perform the method according to any one or more of claims 1-12 and 17-19.
</claims>
</document>
