<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/04,A61F2/68
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COLLEGE PARK INDUSTRIES
WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CLANCY, EDWARD
FARRELL, TODD
HUANG, XINMING
LI, JIANAN
MCDONALD, BENJAMIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70771396
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MANAGEMENT OF WIRELESS TRANSMISSION RATE OF CONTROL SIGNALS FOR POWER ASSISTIVE DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for transmission of a signal for a powered assistive device has a sensor node with a wireless transmitter adapted for digitally transmitting a transmitted signal, the sensor node adapted for receiving and monitoring a sensor signal from a sensor attached to a user, and a master node with a controller and a wireless receiver for receiving the transmitted signal from the wireless transmitter. The master node processes the transmitted signal and communicates a control signal to the powered assistive device. The wireless transmitter transmits the transmitted signal at a first rate when the wireless transmitter adapted to transmit the transmitted signal at a first rate when the sensor signal is indicative of the rest state and to transmit the transmitted signal at a second rate when the sensor signal is indicative of the active state, the second rate being greater than the first rate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for transmission of a transmitted signal for a powered assistive device based on a signal of a sensor, comprising:
a powered assistive device;
a sensor node having a wireless transmitter adapted for digitally transmitting a transmitted signal, the sensor node adapted for receiving a sensor signal from a sensor attached to a user and monitoring the sensor signal, the sensor signal indicative of a rest or active state of the user; and a master node having a controller and a wireless receiver for receiving the transmitted signal from the wireless transmitter, the master node adapted for processing the transmitted signal and communicating a control signal to the powered assistive device, the wireless transmitter adapted to transmit the transmitted signal at a first rate when the sensor signal is indicative of the rest state and to transmit the transmitted signal at a second rate when the sensor signal is indicative of the active state, the second rate being greater than the first rate.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein:
the sensor signal indicative of the rest state of the user comprises a signal at or below a threshold value and the sensor signal indicative of an active state of the user comprises a signal above the threshold value; or
the sensor signal indicative of the rest state of the user comprises a rate of change that is at or below a threshold value and the sensor signal indicative of an active state of the user comprises a rate of change that is above the threshold value.
3. The system of any of the claims 1-2, wherein the wireless transmitter is adapted for transmitting the transmitted signal using a communication protocol selected from the group consisting of Bluetooth, Zigbee, Z-Wave, ANT/ANT+ and 6LowPAN.
4. The system of any of the claims 1-3, wherein the sensor signal comprises a biological or movement signal for body activity of the user and the sensor is selected from the group consisting of an electromyographic (EMG) sensor, an inertial measurement unit (IMU) sensor, a force sensitive resistor, a liner transducer, a switch, a pressure transducer, an accelerometer, a gravitometer, a magnetometer, a inclinometer, a temperature sensor and a button.
5. The system of any of the claims 1-4, wherein:
the second rate of the transmitted signal has a transmission interval that is lower than a transmission interval of the transmitted signal at the first rate; and/or
the second rate has a transmission interval that varies in a range of 1 ms to 10,000 ms, 1 ms to 1000 ms, or 10 ms to 100 ms. 6. The system of any of the claims 1-5, wherein:
the second rate of the transmitted signal has a packet size that is larger than a packet size of the transmitted signal at the first rate; and/or
the packet size at the second rate dynamically varies from 1 byte to 244 bytes. 7. The system of any of the claims 1-6, wherein the signal received from the sensor is an analog sensor signal and the sensor node further comprises an analog front end (AFE).
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the analog front end (AFE) is adapted for signal conditioning of the analog sensor signal received from the sensor, the signal conditioning comprising analog to digital conversion, gaining, thresholding, applying pattern recognition/machine learning techniques and/or filtering of the analog sensor signal.
9. The system of any of the claims 1-8, wherein the controller is adapted for signal conditioning the transmitted signal received from the wireless transmitter of the sensor node, the signal conditioning including digital to analog conversion, thresholding, applying pattern recognition/machine learning techniques, and/or filtering of the transmitted signal.
10. The system of any of the claims 1-9, wherein the powered assistive device is selected from a group consisting of a powered prosthetic, a powered orthotic, a wrist rotator, elbow, multiarticulating hand, 1-DoF hand, knee, ankle, a powered upper and lower limb orthotic, split hook, gripper and an exo skeleton.
11. The system of any of the claims 1-6 and 9-10, wherein the sensor signal received from the sensor is digital.
12. The system of any of the claims 1-11, wherein the second rate varies dynamically when the sensor signal is indicative of an active state and/or varies proportionally with respect to a strength of the sensor signal.
13. The system of any of the claims 1-12, wherein the master node further comprises a transceiver that is adapted for communicating to and from an external device, the external device being selected from the group consisting of a base station, smart phone, wearable computer, personal digital assistant and a tablet.
14. A method of adjusting transmission rate of a transmitted signal for a powered assistive device based on a signal of a sensor, the method comprising the steps of:
providing a system for control of the powered assistive device, the system having a master node and a sensor node, the sensor node comprising a wireless transmitter, and the master node comprising a controller and a wireless receiver;
receiving and monitoring a sensor signal from a sensor attached to a user at the sensor node; digitally transmitting a transmitted signal from the wireless transmitter of the sensor node to the wireless receiver at a first rate when the sensor signal is indicative of a rest state;
digitally transmitting the transmitted signal at a second rate when the sensor signal is indicative of an active state, the second rate being greater than the first rate; and
receiving the transmitted signal at the wireless receiver of the master node for controlling the powered assistive device.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein:
the sensor signal indicative of the rest state of the user comprises a signal at or below a threshold value and the sensor signal indicative of an active state of the user comprises a signal above the threshold value; or
the sensor signal indicative of the rest state of the user comprises a rate of change that is at or below a threshold value and the sensor signal indicative of an active state of the user comprises a rate of change that is above the threshold value.
16. The method of any of the claims 14-15, wherein the second rate varies dynamically when the sensor signal is indicative of an active state and/or varies proportionally with respect to a strength of the sensor signal.
17. The method of any of the claims 14-16, wherein:
the second rate of the transmitted signal has a transmission interval that is lower than a transmission interval of the transmitted signal at the first rate; and/or
the second rate has a transmission interval that varies in a range of 1 ms to 10,000 ms, 1 ms to 1000 ms, or 10 ms to 100 ms.
18. A system for transmission of a transmitted signal for a powered assistive device based on a signal of a sensor, comprising:
a sensor node having a wireless transmitter adapted for digitally transmitting a transmitted signal, the sensor node adapted for receiving a sensor signal from a sensor attached to a user and monitoring the sensor signal, the sensor signal indicative of a rest or active state of the user; and a master node having a controller and a wireless receiver for receiving the transmitted signal from the wireless transmitter, the master node adapted for processing the transmitted signal and communicating a control signal to the powered assistive device, the wireless transmitter adapted to transmit the transmitted signal at a first rate when the sensor signal is indicative of the rest state and to transmit the transmitted signal at a second rate when the sensor signal is indicative of the active state, the second rate being greater than the first rate.
</claims>
</document>
