<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12M3/08,C12Q1/6881,G06K19/063
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FRED HUTCHINSON CANCER RESEARCH CENTER
</assignee>

<inventors>
BIELAS, JASON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70774634
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SPATIAL MAPPING OF CELLS AND CELL TYPES IN COMPLEX TISSUES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods to tag cells in a tissue sample with spatial identifiers, so that spatial reconstruction of cell locations within a tissue can be achieved after tissue disaggregation are described. The systems and methods allow the control or directing of specific spatial identifiers spatially within or throughout a tissue to individual cells or to a small population of cells so that cell position can be determined by computational deconvolution of the spatial identifiers after tissue disaggregation. The systems and methods can be combined with single cell expression analysis to correlate cell types with cell location within a structure, such as a tumor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising:
applying a spatial identifier comprising a nucleic acid barcode to a location on a biological sample having a cell-type composition, wherein the spatial identifier is attached to a binding agent that binds a cell surface marker on a cell within the biological sample;
disaggregating the biological sample;
analyzing cells from the disaggregated biological sample for the presence of the spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode;
assigning a spatial location to each analyzed cell based on the presence, amount, or absence of the spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode;
associating a transcriptional label with each cell from the disaggregated biological sample; amplifying nucleic acid from each cell associated with a corresponding transcriptional label; sequencing the amplified nucleic acid from each cell to produce a corresponding cellular transcriptome profile;
linking the amplified transcriptional label with the cellular transcriptome profile;
identifying a cell type based on the cellular transcriptome profile;
linking the cell type to the assigned spatial location based on the assigning and identifying.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the cell surface marker comprises CD45 and/or CD102.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein the binding agent comprises an anti-CD45 antibody or binding fragment thereof and/or an anti-CD102 antibody or binding fragment thereof.
4. The method of claim 1 , wherein the binding agent comprises a fluorophore.
5. The method of claim 1 , wherein disaggregating the biological sample comprises contacting the biological sample with hyaluronidase and/or thermolysin enzymes.
6. A method comprising:
applying a spatial identifier to a location on a biological sample having a cell-type composition; disaggregating the biological sample;
analyzing cells from the disaggregated biological sample for the presence of the spatial identifier;
assigning a spatial location to each analyzed cell based on the presence, amount, or absence of the spatial identifier;
associating a transcriptional label with each cell from the disaggregated biological sample; amplifying nucleic acid from each cell associated with a corresponding transcriptional label; sequencing the amplified nucleic acid from each cell to produce a corresponding cellular transcriptome profile; linking the amplified transcriptional label with the cellular transcriptome profile; identifying a cell type based on the cellular transcriptome profile;
linking the cell type to the assigned spatial location based on the assigning and identifying.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the location is recorded.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the biological sample is a tumor sample.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the cell-type composition is uniform.
10. The method of claim 6, wherein the cell-type composition is heterogeneous.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the heterogenous cell-type composition comprises tumorinfiltrating lymphocytes.
12. The method of claim 6, comprising applying at least 2 distinct spatial identifiers to locations on the biological sample, wherein each distinct spatial identifier is applied to a different location.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the locations are recorded.
14. The method of claim 6, wherein application of the spatial identifier creates a gradient of the spatial identifier within the biological sample.
15. The method of claim 6, wherein the spatial identifier comprises a nucleic acid barcode, a fluorescent molecule, a radioactive molecule, a chemiluminescent label, a spectral colorimetric label, a detectable tag, a fluorescence emitting metal, and/or a magnetic particle.
16. The method of claim 6, wherein the spatial identifier is applied with an acoustic wave, heat, electromagnetic mobilization, electrophoresis, electroporation, injection, iontophoresis, magnetic charge, particle bombardment, pressure wave, sonophoresis, and/or ultrasound.
17. The method of claim 6, wherein the spatial identifier is allowed to penetrate through simple diffusion.
18. The method of claim 6, wherein the spatial identifier is attached to a binding agent, a bead, a nanoparticle, a magnetic particle, a polymer, a quantum dot, or a raman probe.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the binding agent is an antibody.
20. The method of claim 6, wherein the spatial identifier comprises a nucleic acid barcode.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode comprises sequencing adapters.
22. The method of claim 20, wherein the spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode comprises a unique molecular identifier.
23. The method of claim 20, wherein the spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode comprises at least 10,000 identical copies of the nucleic acid barcode attached to a bead.
24. The method of claim 6, wherein the spatial identifier is a fluorescent molecule and cells from the biological sample are sorted by flow cytometry following disaggregation.
25. The method of claim 6, wherein spatial identifiers are motivated through the biological sample with magnetic particles.
26. The method of claim 6, wherein the spatial identifier is associated with a binding agent that binds a cell surface marker on a cell within the biological sample.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the cell surface marker comprises CD45 and/or CD102.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the binding agent comprises an anti-CD45 antibody or binding fragment thereof and/or an anti-CD102 antibody or binding fragment thereof.
29. The method of claim 26, wherein the cell surface marker is expressed on tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the cell surface marker expressed on tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes comprises CD3, CD4, and/or CD8.
31. The method of claim 26, wherein the binding agent comprises an anti-CD3 antibody or binding fragment thereof, an anti-CD4 antibody or binding fragment thereof, and/or an anti-CD8 antibody or binding fragment thereof.
32. The method of claim 26, wherein the cell surface marker is expressed on cancer cells.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein the cell surface marker expressed on cancer cells is CD44, Prostate-Specific Membrane Antigen (PSMA), Wilms' Tumor 1 Antigen (WT1), Prostate Stem Cell Antigen (PSCA), Simian Vacuolating Virus 40 large T antigen (SV40 T), human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2), receptor tyrosine kinase-like orphan receptor (ROR1), L1 cell adhesion molecule (L1-CAM), extracellular domain of MUC16 (MUC-CD), folate binding protein (folate receptor), Lewis Y carbohydrate antigen, or carboxy-anhydrase-IX (CAIX).
34. The method of claim 26, wherein the binding agent comprises an anti-CD44 antibody or binding fragment thereof, an anti-PSMA antibody or binding fragment thereof, an anti-WT1 antibody or binding fragment thereof, an anti-PSCA antibody or binding fragment thereof, an antiSV40 T antibody or binding fragment thereof, an anti-HER2 antibody or binding fragment thereof, an anti-ROR1 antibody or binding fragment thereof, an anti-L1-CAM antibody or binding fragment thereof, an extracellular domain of MUC-CD antibody or binding fragment thereof, an anti-folate receptor antibody or binding fragment thereof, an anti-Lewis Y antibody or binding fragment thereof, an anti-mesothelin antibody or binding fragment thereof, or an anti-CAIX antibody or binding fragment thereof.
35. The method of claim 6, wherein disaggregating the biological sample comprises contacting the biological sample with hyaluronidase and/or thermolysin enzymes.
36. The method of claim 6, comprising imaging the biological sample before disaggregation.
37. The method of claim 6, comprising imaging the biological sample before and/or after application of spatial identifiers.
38. The method of claim 6, comprising cutting the biological sample into portions before and/or after application of spatial identifiers and/or before and/or after imaging.
39. The method of claim 6, comprising:
cutting the biological sample after applying the spatial identifier;
obtaining cells from the edge of the cut;
assessing presence, amount, or concentration of spatial identifiers in or on the obtained cells; and
using the assessed presence, amount, or concentration of spatial identifiers to provide a calibrating reference point for spatial mapping.
40. The method of claim 6, comprising:
obtaining cellular biopsies of the biological sample from known locations after applying the spatial identifier;
assessing presence, amount, or concentration of spatial identifiers in or on the biopsied cells; and
using the assessed presence, amount, or concentration of spatial identifiers to provide a calibrating reference point for spatial mapping.
41. The method of claim 39 or 40, wherein calibrated reference points are associated with one or more fiducial markers on an image.
42. The method of claim 6, wherein assigning utilizes calibrated reference points or calibrated reference points associated with one or more fiducial markers on an image.
43. The method of claim 6, comprising correlating location(s) in an image of the biological sample with spatial identifiers applied to the biological sample.
44. The method of claim 6, wherein the assigning of a spatial location utilizes spatial reference data in a linear, nonlinear, logistic, polynomial, or exponential regression or fitting model.
45. The method of claim 6, wherein the assigning of a spatial location utilizes computational modeling based on a neural network or a decision tree.
46. The method of claim 6, wherein associating a transcriptional label with each cell from the disaggregated biological sample further comprises partitioning disaggregated cells into single cell partitions wherein each partition comprises
a single cell comprising a first set of polynucleotides; and
the corresponding transcriptional label comprising a nucleic acid barcode.
47. The method of claim 46, wherein the partitions are droplets.
48. The method of claim 46, wherein the transcriptional label further comprises sequencing adapters.
49. The method of claim 46, wherein the transcriptional label further comprises a unique molecular identifier.
50. The method of claim 46, wherein the partition comprises lysis reagents.
51. The method of claim 46, wherein the partition comprises nucleic acid amplification reagents.
52. The method of claim 46, wherein the partition comprises a polymerase.
53. The method of claim 46, wherein the partition comprises a template switching oligonucleotide.
54. The method of claim 46, wherein the partition comprises an endonuclease, DNA polymerase enzymes and dNTPs.
55. The method of claim 46, wherein the partition comprises reverse transcriptase enzymes, primers, and template switching oligonucleotides.
56. The method of claim 46, comprising
subjecting the first set of polynucleotides to nucleic acid amplification under conditions sufficient to generate a second set of polynucleotides, wherein a given polynucleotide of the second set of polynucleotides comprises
(i) a segment having a sequence of a polynucleotide of the first set of polynucleotides and (ii) a segment having a sequence of a transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode.
57. The method of claim 56, comprising generating a library of second sets of polynucleotides from a plurality of partitions, each partition comprising a partitioned cell of claim 48.
58. The method of claim 57, comprising
(a) subjecting the library of second sets of polynucleotides to sequencing to yield sequencing reads, wherein each transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode sequence of the plurality of transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode sequences associate sequencing reads with each corresponding individual partitioned cell; and
(b) processing the sequencing reads associated with individual partitioned cells to generate
(i) a first set of transcriptome profiles corresponding to a first cell type and
(ii) a second set of transcriptome profiles corresponding to a second cell type, which first and second set of transcriptome profiles differentiate a cell of the first cell type from a cell of the second cell type.
59. The method of claim 58, wherein the first set of transcriptome profiles and the second set of transcriptome profiles comprise single nucleotide variants (SNVs).
60. The method of claim 58, wherein each of the first and second set of transcriptome profiles comprise at least 30 SNVs.
61. The method of claim 58, wherein the first set of transcriptome profiles and the second set of transcriptome profiles do not intersect (do not share members).
62. The method of claim 6, wherein the transcriptional label is associated with a bead.
63. The method of claim 6, wherein the bead is a gel bead.
64. The method of claim 62, wherein the transcriptional label is releasably attached to the bead.
65. The method of claim 6, wherein the transcriptional label comprises at least 10,000 identical nucleic acid barcodes.
66. The method of claim 64, comprising applying a stimulus to release the transcriptional label from the bead.
67. The method of claim 66, wherein the stimulus is a photo-stimulus, a thermal stimulus, or a chemical stimulus.
68. The method of claim 6, wherein the sequencing comprises high-throughput single cell transcriptomics.
69. The method of claim 6, wherein the sequencing comprises single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq).
70. A method comprising:
applying a spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode to a location on a biological sample having a cell-type composition;
disaggregating the biological sample into a suspension of cells; and
separating the cells into single cell partitions wherein each partition comprises (i) a first set of polynucleotides comprising the partitioned cell's endogenous genome and optionally a spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode; and (ii) a transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode that is different from the spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode.
71. The method of claim 70, wherein the location is recorded.
72. The method of claim 70, wherein the cell-type composition is uniform.
73. The method of claim 70, wherein the cell-type composition is heterogeneous.
74. The method of claim 70, wherein the partitions are droplets.
75. The method of claim 70, wherein the spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode is associated with a first bead and the transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode is associated with a second bead.
76. The method of claim 75, wherein the first bead and/or the second bead is a gel bead.
77. The method of claim 75, wherein the spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode and the transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode are releasably attached to their respective beads.
78. The method of claim 70, wherein the spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode comprises at least 10,000 identical spatial identifier nucleic acid barcodes and the transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode comprises at least 10,000 identical transcriptional label nucleic acid barcodes.
79. The method of claim 78, comprising applying a stimulus to release the spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode from its bead.
80. The method of claim 78, comprising applying a stimulus to release the transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode from its bead.
81. The method of claim 79 or 80, wherein the stimulus that releases the spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode from its bead is different from the stimulus that releases the transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode from its bead.
82. The method of claim 79 or 80, wherein the stimulus that releases the spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode from its bead is the same as the stimulus that releases the transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode from its bead.
83. The method of claim 79 or 80, wherein the stimulus is a photo-stimulus, a thermal stimulus, or a chemical stimulus.
84. The method of claim 70, wherein the spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode and the transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode are functionalized with sequencing adapters.
85. The method of claim 70, wherein the spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode and/or the transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode comprises a unique molecular identifier.
86. The method of claim 70, wherein the partition comprises nucleic acid amplification reagents.
87. The method of claim 70, wherein the partition comprises a polymerase.
88. The method of claim 70, wherein the partition comprises a template switching oligonucleotide.
89. The method of claim 70, wherein the partition comprises an endonuclease, DNA polymerase enzymes and dNTPs.
90. The method of claim 70, wherein the partition comprises reverse transcriptase enzymes, primers, and template switching oligonucleotides.
91. The method of claim 70, comprising
subjecting the first set of polynucleotides to nucleic acid amplification under conditions sufficient to generate a second set of polynucleotides, wherein a given polynucleotide of the second set of polynucleotides comprises
(i) a segment having a sequence of a polynucleotide of the first set of polynucleotides; and (ii) a segment having a sequence of a transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode; and/or
an amplified spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode.
92. The method of claim 91 , comprising generating a library of second sets of polynucleotides from a plurality of partitions, each partition comprising a partitioned cell of claim 66.
93. The method of claim 92, comprising
subjecting the library of second sets of polynucleotides to sequencing to yield sequencing reads, wherein
presence, amount, or type of spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode sequences allow assignment of a spatial location of the partitioned cell before biological sample disaggregation; and transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode sequences of the plurality of transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode sequences associate sequencing reads with individual partitioned cells.
94. The method of claim 93, comprising processing the sequencing reads associated with individual partitioned cells to assign spatial location and identify cell type of individually partitioned cells.
95. The method of claim 94, wherein assigning of a spatial location utilizes calibrated reference points.
96. The method of claim 94, wherein assigning of a spatial location utilizes calibrated reference points that are associated with one or more fiducial markers on an image.
97. The method of claim 94, wherein assigning of a spatial location utilizes correlating location(s) in an image of the biological sample with spatial identifier nucleic acid barcodes introduced to the biological sample.
98. The method of claim 94, wherein assigning of a spatial location utilizes spatial reference data in a linear, nonlinear, logistic, polynomial, or exponential regression or fitting model.
99. The method of claim 94, wherein assigning of a spatial location utilizes computational modeling based on a neural network or a decision tree.
100. The method of claim 94, wherein the cell type of individually partitioned cells is identified utilizing a first set of genetic profiles and a second set of genetic profiles, each set comprising single nucleotide variants (SNVs).
101. The method of claim 100, wherein each of the first and second set of genetic profiles comprise at least 30 SNVs.
102. The method of claim 100, wherein the first set of genetic profiles and the second set of genetic profiles do not intersect (do not share members).
103. A method comprising reverse transcribing nucleic acid within a plurality of single cell partitions, wherein the nucleic acid within each partition comprises (i) nucleic acid endogenous to the cell within the partition; (ii) a spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode; and (iii) a transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode; generating a library of reverse transcribed nucleic acid from the plurality of single cell partitions; sequencing the generated library;
processing the sequencing data to enable automated cell clustering; and
assigning a spatial location and a cell type to cell clusters based on the reverse transcribed endogenous nucleic acid, the spatial identifier nucleic acid barcode; and the transcriptional label nucleic acid barcode.
104. A kit comprising components to practice a method of any of the preceding claims.
105. A kit of claim 104, comprising one or more of spatial identifiers, transcriptional labels, reagents for tissue disaggregation, beads, nanoparticles, magnetic particles, polymers, quantum dots, raman probes, sequencing adapters, unique molecular identifiers, binding agents, tissue cutting tools, tissue processing components, lysis reagents, nucleic acid amplification reagents, polymerases, template switching oligonucleotides, endonucleases, DNA polymerase enzymes, dNTPs, reverse transcriptase enzymes, primers, and information regarding genetic profiles to identify cell types.
106. A kit of claim 105, wherein spatial identifiers comprise one or more of nucleic acid barcodes, fluorescent molecules, radioactive molecules, chemiluminescent labels, spectral colorimetric labels, detectable tags, fluorescence emitting metals, and/or magnetic particles.
107. A kit of claim 105, wherein binding agents comprise one or more of anti-CD3 antibodies or binding fragments thereof, anti-CD4 antibodies or binding fragments thereof, anti-CD8 antibodies or binding fragments thereof, anti-CD44 antibodies or binding fragments thereof, antiPSMA antibodies or binding fragments thereof, anti-WT 1 antibodies or binding fragments thereof, anti-PSCA antibodies or binding fragments thereof, anti-SV40 T antibodies or binding fragments thereof, anti-HER2 antibodies or binding fragments thereof, anti-ROR1 antibodies or binding fragments thereof, anti-L1-CAM antibodies or binding fragments thereof, anti-extracellular domain of MUC (MUC-CD) antibodies or binding fragments thereof, anti-folate receptor antibodies or binding fragments thereof, anti-Lewis Y antibodies or binding fragments thereof, anti-mesothelin antibodies or binding fragments thereof, and/or anti-CAIX antibodies or binding fragments thereof.
</claims>
</document>
