<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T17/00,G06T19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AXIAL MEDICAL PRINTING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CRAWFORD, DANIEL
HASLAM, NIALL
COOMBER, CATHERINE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65527967
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR GENERATING A 3D PRINTABLE MODEL OF A PATIENT SPECIFIC ANATOMY
</title>

<abstract>
A computer implemented method for generating a 3D printable model of a patient specific anatomic feature from 2D medical images is provided. A 3D image is automatically generated from a set of 2D medical images. A machine learning based image segmentation technique is used to segment the generated 3D image. A 3D printable model of the patient specific anatomic feature is created from the segmented 3D image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for generating a 3D printable model of a patient specific anatomic feature from 2D medical images, in which:
(a) a 3D image is automatically generated from a set of 2D medical images;
(b) a machine learning based image segmentation technique is used to segment the generated 3D image; and
(c) a 3D printable model of the patient specific anatomic feature is created from the segmented 3D image.
2. The method of Claim 1 in which the set of 2D medical images are images from the patient taken from one or a combination of the following: CT, MRI, PET and/or SPCET scanner. 3. The method of Claim 1 or 2 in which 2D medical images from multiple scanning techniques are simultaneously processed.
4. The method of any preceding Claim in which the set of 2D medical images is automatically pre-processed such that important or critical features of the patient specific anatomic feature are made visible within the 3D printable model.
5. The method of Claim 4 in which pre-processing of the 2D medical images is based on the specific anatomic feature, specific pathology of the patient or any downstream application such as pre-operative planning or training purpose.
6. The method of any preceding Claim in which the set of 2D medical images is pre-processed to generate a new set of 2D medical images which are evenly distributed according to a predetermined orientation. 7. The method of Claim 6 in which the predetermined orientation is based on the patient specific anatomic feature, specific pathology of the patient or any downstream application such as pre-operative planning or training purpose.
8. The method of Claim 6 or 7 in which the predetermined orientation and spacing between each 2D medical image within the new set of 2D medical images are determined using machine learning techniques.
9. The method of Claim 6-8 in which the predetermined orientation and spacing between each 2D medical image within the new set of 2D medical images are user configurable.
10. The method of any preceding Claim in which a missing slice from the set of 2D medical images is automatically detected.
11. The method of Claim 10 in which a 2D image corresponding to the missing slice is generated using interpolation techniques.
12. The method of any preceding Claim in which the segmentation technique is based on one or a combination of the following techniques: threshold-based, decision tree, chained decision forest and a neural network method.
13. The method of any preceding Claim in which voxel based classification technique is used in which voxel information from each axis or plane is taken into account.
14. The method of any preceding Claim in which the likelihood of a voxel of the 3D image having properties similar to the patient specific anatomic feature is calculated using a logistic or probabilistic function.
15. The method of any preceding Claim in which a neural network determines a weight for each axis or plane in each voxel of the 3D image.
16. The method of any preceding Claim in which the segmentation technique is further improved using multi-channel training.
17. The method of Claim 16 in which each channel represents a 2D image corresponding to a slice position within the 3D space of the 3D image. 18. The method of Claim 16-17 in which a channel is represented using a ground truth image. 19. The method of any preceding Claim in which a 3D mesh model of the patient specific anatomic feature is generated from the segmented 3D image, and the 3D printable model is generated from the 3D mesh model.
20. The method of any preceding Claim in which the 3D mesh model is further processed using finite element analysis.
21. The method of any preceding Claim in which points or areas in the 3D mesh model requiring further post processing steps are automatically detected. 22. The method of any preceding Claim in which further post processing steps include placement of a dowel or other joining structure.
23. The method of any preceding Claim in which the optimal placement of a dowel or other joining structure is automatically determined.
24. The method of any preceding Claim in which parameters of the patient anatomic feature are automatically determined from the analysis of the generated 3D image, such as volume or dimensions of the anatomic feature, thicknesses of the different layers of the anatomic feature.
25. The method of any preceding Claim in which the specific anatomic feature is a heart and the measured parameters include one of the following: volume of the heart, volume of blood in each chamber of the heart, thickness of the different layers of the heart wall, size of a specific vessel.
26. The method of any preceding Claim in which the 3D printable model is 3D printed as a 3D physical model such that it represents a scale model of the patient specific anatomic feature such as a 1 : 1 scale model or a more appropriate scale model such as a reduced scale or enlarged scale model of the patient specific anatomic feature depending on the intended downstream application.
27. The method of any preceding Claim in which the 3D printable model is 3D printed with critical or important features of the specific anatomic feature made easily visible or accessible.
28. The method of any preceding Claim in which a 3D mesh is generated from the set of 2D medical images, in which the 3D mesh is a polygonal representation of the volume of the patient specific anatomic feature.
29. The method of Claim 28 in which a line or spline is extracted from the 3D mesh along a direction of the patient specific anatomic feature.
30. The method of Claim 28-29 in which a classifier is used to identify the anatomic feature from the extracted line or spline.
31. The method of Claim 28-30 in which a classifier is used to identify the physical properties of the anatomic feature from the extracted line or spline.
32. The method of Claim 28-30 in which a classifier is used to identify a pathology of the anatomic feature from the extracted line or spline.
33. The method of Claim 28-32 further including the step of generating a wireframe model of the 3D mesh.
34. The method of Claim 30-33 in which the classifier is trained to identify a specific anatomical feature.
35. The method of Claim 30-34 in which the classifier is trained to determine parameters of the specific anatomic feature such as its location relative to the human body, dimension or thickness.
36. The method of Claim 30-35 in which the classifier is trained to determine a potential defect or pathology of the specific anatomic feature.
37. The method of Claim 30-36 in which the classifier is a principle component analysis classifier.
38. The method of any preceding Claim in which the method further includes the step of splitting the 3D printable model into a set of 3D printable models, in which the set of 3D printable models include connective pieces, in which the location of each connective piece is automatically generated.
39. The method of Claim 38 in which splitting of the 3D printable model is decided based on the patient specific anatomy and pathology.
40. The method of Claim 38-39 in which splitting of the 3D printable model cannot be decided only on assessing the surface of the patient specific anatomy.
41. The method of Claim 38 - 40 in which a connective piece is a magnetic or metal element.
42. The method of Claim 38 - 41 in which each connective piece is located such that a set of 3D printed physical models from the set of 3D printable models can be connected to represent the patient specific anatomic feature and is prevented from being wrongfully connected.
43. The method of Claim 38 - 42 in which the set of 3D printed physical models represent a scale model of the patient specific anatomic feature such as a 1 : 1 scale model or a more appropriate scale model such as a reduced scale or enlarged scale model of the patient specific anatomic feature depending on the intended downstream application.
44. The method of Claim 38 - 43 in which critical or important features of the specific anatomic feature are made easily visible within the set of 3D printable physical models.
45. The method of Claim 38 - 44 in which critical or important features of the specific anatomic feature are made easily accessible within the set of 3D printable physical models.
46. A 3D physical model representing a scale model of a patient specific anatomic feature that is 3D printed from the 3D printable model generated from the method of Claim 1-45, in which the scale model is a 1 : 1 scale model or a more appropriate scale model such as a reduced scale or enlarged scale model of the patient specific anatomic feature depending on the intended downstream application
47. A computer implemented system for generating a 3D printable model of a patient specific anatomic feature from a set of 2D medical images, the system comprising a processor for (a) automatically generating a 3D image from the set of 2D medical images, (b) segmenting the generated 3D image using a machine learning based image segmentation technique, and (c) outputting a 3D printable model of the patient specific anatomic feature from the segmented 3D image.
48. A computer implemented method for printing a 3D model of a patient specific anatomic feature comprising:
(a) uploading a set of 2D medical images to a server,
(b) processing at the server the set of 2D medical images into a 3D printable model of the patient specific anatomic feature; and
(c) the server transmitting instructions for printing the 3D printable model to a printer, in which a security engine validates that the 3D printable model is associated with the correct patient data,
in which an end-user located at a remote location from the printer manages the printing of the 3D printable model.
49. The method of Claim 48 in which the set of 2D medical images and additional metadata are anonymised prior to being sent to the server such that no identifiable healthcare or personal information is transferred to the server.
50. The method of Claim 48-49 in which the end-user remotely schedules, initiates or approves the printing of a 3D printable model on one or more printers via a Web application.
51. The method of Claim 48-50 in which the end user remotely controls one or more printers and the printing is automatically arranged on the one or more printers.
52. The method of Claim 48-51 in which a hash of a file corresponding to the file of the 3D printable model is created and stored within a central repository.
53. The method of Claim 52 in which the central repository is accessed by the server.
54. The method of Claim 52-53 in which the central repository is a file, a database or a distributed ledger.
55. The method of Claim 52-54 in which the hash is used to recreate or validate the printing or any subsequent printing of the 3D patient specific anatomic feature.
56. The method of Claim 52-55 in which modifications to the file are stored with the hash and used to provide an audit trail of the provenance of the file.
57. The method of Claim 52-56 in which the hash is used to establish if a file has been modified.
58. The method of Claim 48-57 in which the distribution of one or more files for 3D printing one or more specific anatomic features is managed by a centralised file signing service.
59. The method of Claim 48-58 in which the files corresponding to the 3D printable models are encrypted using private/public key based encryption.
60. The method of Claim 48-59 in which the security engine ensures only encrypted files of the 3D printable model are transmitted for printing.
61. The method of Claim 48-60 in which a file of the 3D printable model is only decrypted in transit as a print is being completed.
</claims>
</document>
