<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B01L3/00,C12Q1/6844,C12Q1/6888
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
ROSENBERG, ERIC
THE BROAD INSTITUTE
SABETI, PARDIS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROSENBERG, ERIC
SABETI, PARDIS
ADAMS, Gordon
PIANTADOSI, Anne
LEMIEUX, Jacob
NORMANDIN, Erica
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70277482
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SHERLOCK ASSAYS FOR TICK-BORNE DISEASES
</title>

<abstract>
Provided herein is a nucleic acid detection system comprising a detection CRISPR system having an effector protein and one or more guide RNAs each designed to bind to corresponding target molecules that are diagnostic for a tick-borne disease state; and an RNA-based masking construct. In some embodiments, the detection system of may comprise i) two or more CRISPR systems, each CRISPR system comprising an effector protein and a guide RNA designed to bind to a corresponding target molecule that is diagnostic for a tick-borne disease state; and ii) a set of detection constructs, each detection construct comprising a cutting motif sequence that is preferentially cut by one of the activated CRISPR effector proteins. Exemplary tick-borne detectable microbes include Babesia microti, Anaplasma phagocytophilum, and Borrelia miyamotoi.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A nucleic acid detection system comprising:
a. a detection CRISPR system comprising an effector protein and one or more guide RNAs each designed to bind to corresponding target molecules that are diagnostic for a tick-home disease state; and
b. an RNA-based masking construct.
2. The nucleic acid detection system of claim 1 comprising:
i) two or more CRISPR systems, each CRISPR system comprising an effector protein and a guide RNA designed to bind to a corresponding target molecule that is diagnostic for a tick-home disease state; and
ii) a set of detection constructs, each detection construct comprising a cutting motif sequence that is preferentially cut by one of the activated CRISPR effector proteins.
3. The detection system of any of the previous claims, comprising guide RNAs designed to bind to Babesia microti, A. phagocytophilum, and/or Borrelia miyamotoi.
4. The detection system of claim 3, where the guide RNAs are designed to bind to the cytB region of Babesia microti, the 16s region of A. phagocytophilum, and/or the flaB or glpQ gene of B. miyamotoi.
5. The detection system of claim 3, wherein the guide RNAs are designed to detect variants of Babesia microti.
6. The detection system of claim 4, wherein the guide RNA is designed to bind to B. microti flagellin B gene (flaB) or glpQ gene.
7. The detection system of claim 3, wherein the guide RNAs comprise 95% sequence identity to 28 continuous nucleotides of one of SEQ ID Nos: 6-29. 8 The detection system of claim 1, further comprising nucleic acid amplification reagents.
9. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the target molecule is target DNA.
10. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the target molecule comprises a
SNP.
11. The detection system of claim 10, wherein the guide RNA is designed to bind to B. microti comprising a SNP cytB Ml 341.
12. A lateral flow device comprising the system of claim 1.
13. The lateral flow device of claim 12, wherein the CRISPR system is freezedried on the lateral flow strip.
14. The lateral flow device of claim 12, wherein the lateral flow device comprises a substrate comprising a first end, wherein the first end comprises a sample loading portion and a first region loaded with a detectable ligand, the nucleic acid detection system, a first capture region comprising a first binding agent, and a second capture region comprising a second binding agent.
15. The lateral flow device of claim 14, wherein the sample loading portion comprises a receiving input for a blood stick.
16. The lateral flow device of claim 14, wherein the sample loading portion further comprises one or more amplification reagents to amplify the one or more target molecules, wherein the reagents optionally comprise regents for nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (NASBA), recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA), loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP), strand displacement amplification (SDA), helicasedependent amplification (HD A), nicking enzyme amplification reaction (NEAR), PCR, multiple displacement amplification (MDA), rolling circle amplification (RCA), ligase chain reaction (LCR), or ramification amplification method (RAM).
17. The lateral flow device of claim 12, wherein the RNA construct comprises a first molecule on a first end and a second molecule on a second end.
18. The lateral flow device of claim 17, wherein the first molecule is FITC and the second molecule is biotin, or vice versa.
19. The lateral flow device of claim 17, wherein the first capture region comprises a first binding agent that specifically binds the first molecule of the reporter construct.
20. The lateral flow device of claim 14, wherein the first binding agent is an antibody that is fixed or otherwise immobilized to the first capture region.
21. The lateral flow device of claim 14, wherein the second capture region comprises a second binding agent that specifically binds the second molecule of the reporter construct, or the detectable ligand.
22. The lateral flow device of claim 21, wherein the second binding agent is an antibody or an antibody -binding protein that is fixed or otherwise immobilized to the second capture region.
23. A method for detecting target nucleic acids in a sample, comprising:
distributing a sample or set of samples into one or more individual discrete volumes, the individual discrete volumes comprising the nucleic acid detection system of any of the previous claims.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the sample is blood, RBC supernatant, plasma, cerebrospinal fluid.
25. The method of claim 23, further comprising the steps of
i) incubating the sample at 37-50°C for 5-20 minutes;
ii) incubating the sample at 64-95°C for 5 minutes; iii) performing RT-RPA;
iv) performing T7 transcription; and
v) detecting the target nucleic acids.
26. The method of claim 23, comprising treating the sample with heat, optionally at 99 °C for 10 minutes.
27. The method of claim 23, wherein the target nucleic acid is from a sample of cell free DNA.
28. The method of claim 23, wherein the target nucleic acid is DNA and wherein the method further comprises the step of extracting DNA from cells in the sample.
29. The method of claim 23, wherein the sample is collected on a Whatman FTA card.
30. The method of claim 29, further comprising eluting the sample from the FTA card.
31. The detection system of claim 1 or 2, wherein the guide RNA is designed to detect variants of a flavivirus.
32. The detection system of claim 31, wherein the flavivirus is Powassan virus.
33. The detection system of claim 32, wherein the guide RNA is designed to detect the NS5 gene of Powassan virus.
34. The detection system of any of claims 1-11 or the lateral flow device of any of claims 12-22, or the method of any of claims 23-30 comprising a guide RNA designed to detect a flavivirus, optionally Powassan virus.
</claims>
</document>
