<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01K67/033,G06Q50/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERILY LIFE SCIENCES
</assignee>

<inventors>
GREELEY, Daniel
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102884
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PUPAE SINGULATOR AND SEX SORTER
</title>

<abstract>
Devices, systems, and methods for isolating an insect pupa from an aqueous solution including a plurality of insect pupae. An isolation device may include a primary channel through which the aqueous solution and insect pupae travel, an outlet, and a secondary channel that intersects the primary channel. The secondary channel may transport a fluid to add it to the primary channel between an inlet and the outlet. When the sealable outlet is closed, an insect pupa located downstream of the intersection of the primary and secondary channels remains stationary while any insect pupae upstream of the intersection are pushed towards the inlet. The systems and methods described herein may also provide for identifying and sorting insect pupae.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An insect pupae sorting system, comprising:
an isolation device comprising:
a first channel to deliver a first flow of liquid including insect pupae, the first channel comprising an inlet and an outlet; and
a second channel that intersects the first channel between the inlet and the outlet to deliver a second flow of liquid into the first channel to generate a third flow of liquid and to separate adjacent insect pupae being transported through the first channel;
an optical sensor positioned proximate the outlet of the isolation device to capture images of pupae from the third flow of liquid; and
a storage unit system coupled to the outlet that includes a container into which insect pupae of a first type are directed based at least in part on the captured images.
2. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 1, wherein the storage unit system comprises:
at least one container to support a volume of liquid and insect pupae; and a valve positioned on a conduit between the isolation device and the at least one container, wherein the single insect pupa is directed into the at least one container by opening the valve.
3. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 1, wherein:
the first channel has a first cross-sectional dimension corresponding to a size of the insect pupae; and
the second channel has a second cross-sectional dimension smaller than a dimension of the insect pupae.
4. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 1, further comprising a pupa detection system for detecting when the single insect pupa passes an intersection of the first channel and the second channel.
5. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 4, wherein the outlet comprises a closing device for shutting the outlet when the single insect pupa passes the second channel.
6. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 4, wherein the optical sensor is configured to capture the image when the single insect pupa passes the second channel.
7. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 1, wherein the isolation device further comprises a third channel that intersects the first channel between the inlet and the second channel for delivering a third flow of liquid into the first channel.
8. A method of sorting insect pupae, comprising:
providing a flow of fluid comprising pupae into a first channel of an insect isolation device and through the first channel in a first direction, the first channel having a dimension corresponding to a size of a representative pupa of the pupae;
providing a second flow of fluid, through a second channel, into the first channel;
determining that an individual pupa has passed the second channel; and after the individual pupa has passed the second channel:
capturing an image of the individual pupa;
determining a pupa type of the individual pupa based on the image; and
sorting the individual pupa based on the pupa type.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising closing an exit of the first channel after the individual pupa has passed the second channel, and wherein closing the exit causes the flow of fluid to advance through the first channel in a second direction, different from the first direction.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein sorting the individual pupa based on the pupa type comprises opening a valve downstream of an exit of the first channel to direct the individual pupa to a container system based on the pupa type.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining a number of pupae sorted to each pupa type.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising providing a third flow of fluid, through a third channel, into the first channel.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein determining that the individual pupa has passed the second channel comprises using a laser gate across the first channel adjacent to the second channel.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the pupa type is at least one of:
a male pupa;
a female pupa;
a larvae; or
debris.
15. An insect pupae sorting system, comprising:
an isolation device comprising:
a first channel having an inlet and an outlet;
a second channel intersecting the first channel between the inlet and the outlet; and
a cover that encloses the first channel and the second channel into fully-enclosed passages;
an optical sensor to capture an image of an insect pupa in the isolation device; a storage system including at least one holding tank in fluid communication with the isolation device; and
a processor configured to execute processor executable instructions stored in a non-transitory computer-readable medium configured to cause the processor to:
determine the insect pupa has passed the second channel;
receive an image of the insect pupa from the optical sensor;
determine a pupa characteristic based on the image; and
cause the insect pupa to travel into holding tank of the storage system based at least in part on the pupa characteristic.
16. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 15, wherein the processor executable instructions are further configured to receive the image of the insect pupa when the insect pupa passes the second channel.
17. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 16, wherein the processor executable instructions are further configured to cause the processor to cause the outlet to close after determining the insect pupa has passed the second channel.
18. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 17, wherein the processor executable instructions are further configured to cause the processor to cause the outlet to open after capturing the image of the insect pupa.
19. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 15, wherein the pupa characteristic comprises at least one of:
male;
female;
larva; and
waste.
20. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 15, wherein the processor executable instructions are further configured to cause the processor to cause a fluid inlet to add fluid at the outlet when more than one insect pupa passes the second channel.
21. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 15, wherein the processor executable instructions are further configured to cause the processor to cause selective closure of the outlet to position the insect pupa for imaging.
22. An insect pupae sorting system, comprising:
a body;
a first channel formed in the body to transport a first flow of fluid comprising insect pupae, the first channel having a first dimension corresponding to a size of the insect pupae and comprising:
a pupae inlet at a first end of the first channel;
a liquid inlet at a second end of the first channel, the liquid inlet configured to introduce liquid into the first channel to change a flow direction in the first channel; and
a liquid outlet at the second end of the first channel, the liquid outlet configured to remove liquid from the first channel;
a second channel formed in the body that intersects the first channel between the pupae inlet and the liquid inlet and provides a conduit between the first channel and a third channel, wherein the third channel is formed in the body and provides a conduit between a first pupae outlet and a second pupae outlet, the third channel intersected by the second channel between the first pupae outlet and the second pupae outlet.
23. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 22, further comprising:
a second liquid inlet adjacent the first pupae outlet; and
a third liquid inlet adjacent the second pupae outlet, the second liquid inlet and third liquid inlet configured to selectively deliver a third and fourth liquid flow into the third channel.
24. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 22, further comprising a fourth channel that intersects the first channel between the pupae inlet and the second channel, the fourth channel to deliver a second flow of liquid into the first channel to generate a third flow of liquid directable to the liquid outlet, the first pupae outlet, or the second pupae outlet
25. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 22, wherein the first channel comprises a tapered funnel section to guide insect pupae from the pupae inlet into the first channel.
26. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 22, wherein the first channel comprises:
a first portion having a first cross-sectional dimension; and
a second portion having a second cross-sectional dimension, wherein:
the second cross-sectional dimension is smaller than the first crosssectional dimension; and
the first cross-sectional dimension enables the pupae to change direction within the first channel.
27. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 26, wherein the first portion has a first width and the first channel comprises a third portion having a second width, the second width smaller than the first width.
28. The insect pupae sorting system of claim 27, wherein the second portion is adjacent and in between each of the first portion and the third portion.
29. A method of imaging and sorting insect pupae, comprising: providing a flow of liquid comprising pupae into a first channel of an insect isolation device and through the first channel in a first direction, the first channel having a dimension corresponding to a size of a representative pupa of the pupae;
adjusting the flow of liquid to position an individual pupa in an imaging portion of the first channel;
capturing an image of the individual pupa;
determining a pupa type of the individual pupa based on the image; and providing a second flow of fluid to sort the individual pupa into a first pupae outlet or a second pupae outlet based on the pupa type.
30. The method of claim 29, further comprising determining a number of pupae sorted into the first pupae outlet or the second pupae outlet.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein determining the number of pupae comprises receiving data from an optical sensor positioned adjacent the first pupae outlet or the second pupae outlet.
32. The method of claim 29, wherein adjusting the flow of liquid comprises introducing a third flow of fluid in a second direction opposite the first direction.
33. The method of claim 29, wherein providing the second flow of fluid comprises opening the first pupae outlet or the second pupae outlet based on the pupa type.
34. The method of claim 29, wherein the pupa type is at least one of: a male pupa;
a female pupa;
a larvae; or
debris.
35. The method of claim 29, further comprising determining a
characteristic of the individual pupa based at least in part on the image, and wherein the pupa type is determined based on the characteristic of the individual pupa.
</claims>
</document>
