<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B65G65/23
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BERKSHIRE GREY
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMEND, JOHN
GEYER, CHRISTOPHER
MASON MATTHEW
PAXSON, ALEXANDER
ROMANO, JOSEPH
WAGNER, THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70057265
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CONTROLLING THE DISGORING OF OBJECTS IN CONTAINERS BY VIBRATORY MOTION
</title>

<abstract>
A system is disclosed for controlling the disgorging of objects. Tire system includes a container system including a container for containing objects, rotation means for rotating the container to a disgorgement angle, and movement means for moving at least a portion of the container system in a repetitious manner with a net zero distance of travel of the at least the portion of the container system such that the objects are disgorged from the container at a controlled rate of disgorgement.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for controlling the disgorging of objects, said system comprising:
a container system including a container for containing objects;
rotation means for rotating the container to a disgorgement angle; and
movement means for moving at least a portion of the container system in a repetitious manner with a net zero distance of travel of the at least the portion of the container system such that said objects are disgorged from the container at a controlled rate of disgorgement.
2. Idle system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the container of the container system is moved in the repetitious manner by the movement means.
3. The system as claimed m claim 1, wherein the container system includes a chute that is moved in the repetitious manner by the movement means.
4. Idle sy stem as claimed m claim 1, wherein the container sy stem includes a flap that extends down from an upper portion of the container when the container is at the disgorgement angle.
5. The system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the flap is spring biased to be in a closed position, acting to restrain some objects within the container until the objects are closer to a floor of the container.
6. The system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the flap is a multi-part flap such that a lower portion of the flap is less restricting of objects pushing through the flap than is an upper portion of the flap.
7. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the objects are non -homogeneous.
8. The system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the objects vary' in size by at least 1000%.
9. Idle sy stem as claimed in claim 7, wherein the objects vary in volume from about 9 cubic inches to about 9 cubic feet. 10 The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the objects vary' in weight by at least 500%.
11. Idle sy stem as claimed in claim 1 , wherein the obj ects vary in weight from about 5 ounces to about 20 lbs.
12. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the disgorgement angle is no greater than an incipient angle at winch at least one object in the container overcomes a force of friction between the object and the container and begins to move.
13. The system as claimed in claim 12, wherein the disgorgement angle is equal to the incipient angle.
14. The system as claimed in claim 12, wherein the disgorgement angle is within 20 degrees of the incipient angle.
15. The system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the disgorgement angle is within 10 degrees of the incipient angle.
16. The system as claimed in claim 15, wherein the disgorgement angle is within 5 degrees of the incipient angle.
17. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the system further includes determination means for determining the disgorgement angle
18. The system as claimed in claim 17, wherein the determination means includes a processing system in combination with sensors that determine when at least one object in the container begins to slide due to gravity.
19. The system as claimed in claim 17, wherein the determination means includes a processing system in combination with a machine learning system that stores information regarding different disgorgement angles and different characteristics of containers of objects.
20. The system as claimed in claim 19, wherein the different characteristics include any of weight of the plurality of objects in the container, and estimated sizes, volumes, and shapes of objects within the plurality of objects in the container.
21. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the movement means includes linkage bars and rotary motor that cause the movement in a repetitious manner.
22. The system as claimed in claim 1 , wherein the movement means includes a linear actuator and a spring that cause the movement in a repetitious manner.
23. The system as claimed in claim 22, wherein the spring is tunable to provide variable stiffness.
24. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the movement means includes a mechanical system wherein the movement in the repetitious manner is at or near a resonant frequency of the mechanical system.
25. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the movement in a repetitious manner is provided as a cyclical motion with non-balanced duty cycle
26. A system for controlling the disgorging of objects from a container, said system comprising: a container receiving system for receiving the container of objects at a lift and rotate mechanism, said lift and rotate mechanism being adapted to lift the container and to rotate the container to a disgorgement angle; and movement means for moving at least a portion of the lift and rotate mechanism in a repetitious manner with a net zero distance of travel of the at least the portion of the lift and rotate mechanism such that objects are disgorged from the container at a controlled rate of disgorgement
27. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the system further includes determination means for determining the disgorgement angle
28. The system as claimed in claim 27, wherein the disgorgement angle is no greater than an incipient angle at which at least one object in the container overcomes a force of friction between the object and the container and begins to move.
29. The system as claimed in claim 27, wherein the determination means includes a processing system in combination with sensors that determine when at least one object in the container begins to slide due to gravity.
30. The system as claimed in claim 27, wherein the determination means includes a processing system in combination with a machine learning system that stores information regarding different disgorgement angles and different characteristics of containers of objects.
31. The system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the different characteristics include any of weight of the plurality of objects in the container, and estimated sizes, volumes, and shapes of objects within the plurality of objects in the container.
32. The system as claimed in claim 26, wherein the movement means includes linkage bars and rotary' motor that cause the movement in a repetitious manner.
33. The system as claimed in claim 26, wherein the movement means includes a linear actuator and a spring that cause the movement in a repetitious manner.
34. The system as claimed m claim 33, wherein the spring is tunable to provide variable stiffness.
35. The system as claimed in claim 26, wherein the movement means includes a mechanical system wherein the movement in the repetitious manner is at or near a resonant frequency of the mechanical system.
36. The system as claimed in claim 26, wherein the movement in a repetitious manner is provided as a cyclical motion with non-baJanced duty cycle.
37. A method for controlling the disgorging of objects, said method comprising the steps of: providing a container system including a container for containing objects;
rotating the container to a disgorgement angle; and
moving at least a portion of the container system in a repetitious manner with a net zero distance of travel of the at least the portion of the container such that said objects are disgorged from the container at a controlled rate of disgorgement.
38. The method as claimed in claim 37, wherein the method further includes the step of determining the disgorgement angle.
39. The method as claimed in claim 38, wherein the disgorgement angle is no greater than an incipient angle at which at least one object in the container overcomes a force of friction between the object and the container and begins to move.
40. The method as claimed in claim 38, wherein the step of determining the disgorgement angle includes the use of sensors that detennine when at least one object in the container begins to slide due to gravity.
41. The method as claimed in claim 38, wherein the step of determining the disgorgement angle includes the use of a processing system in combination with a machine learning sy stem that stores information regarding different disgorgement angles and different characteristics of containers of objects.
42. The method as claimed in claim 41, wherein the different characteristics include any of weight of the plurality of objects in the container, and estimated sizes, volumes, and shapes of objects within the plurality of objects in the container.
43. The method as claimed in claim 37, wherein the step of moving at least a portion of the container system in a repetitious manner includes the use of linkage bars and rotary motor that cause the movement in a repetitious manner.
44. The method as claimed in claim 37, wherein the step of moving at least a portion of the container system in a repetitious manner includes the use of a linear actuator and a spring that cause the movement in a repetitious manner.
45. Idle method as claimed in claim 33, wherein the spring is tunable to provide variable stiffness.
46. The method as claimed in claim 37, wherein the step of moving at least a portion of the container system in a repetitious manner includes the use of a mechanical system wherein the movement in the repetitious manner is at or near a resonant frequency of the mechanical system.
47. The method as claimed in claim 37, wherein the movement in a repetitious manner is provided as a cyclical motion with non-balanced duty cycle.
48. The method as claimed in claim 37, wherein the method further includes the step of determining the disgorgement angle.
49. The method as claimed in claim 37, wherein the method further includes the step of determining a control frequency of vibration of the container.
</claims>
</document>
