<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMBWANI, GEETU
BIRNBAUM, BENJAMIN E.
FLATIRON HEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMBWANI, GEETU
BIRNBAUM, BENJAMIN E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68582486
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERALIZED BIOMARKER MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
A model-assisted system for identifying candidates for a cohort based on a biomarker may include at least one processor. The processor may be programmed to access a database from which information associated with a population of individuals can be derived; provide, to a generalized biomarker model, a first biomarker associated with a cohort, the generalized biomarker model being trained based on one or more second biomarkers using the information, wherein the first biomarker is different from the one or more second biomarkers; receive, from the generalized biomarker model, a first output indicating a first group of the population of individuals exceeding a first likelihood threshold of having been tested for the first biomarker; and determine, based on the first output, whether an individual from among the first group of the population of individuals is a candidate for the cohort.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A model-assisted system, the system comprising:
at least one processor programmed to:
access a database from which information associated with a population of individuals can be derived;
provide, to a generalized biomarker model, a first biomarker associated with a cohort, the generalized biomarker model being trained based on one or more second biomarkers using the information, wherein the first biomarker is different from the one or more second biomarkers;
receive, from the generalized biomarker model, a first output indicating a first group of the population of individuals exceeding a first likelihood threshold of having been tested for the first biomarker; and determine, based on the first output, whether an individual from among the first group of the population of individuals is a candidate for the cohort.
2. The model-assisted system of claim 1 , wherein the information comprises medical records associated with the population of individuals.
3. The model-assisted system of claim 2, wherein the medical records include structured information and unstructured information associated with the population of individuals.
4. The model-assisted system of claim 3, wherein the unstructured information includes text written by a health care provider, a radiology report, or a pathology report.
5. The model-assisted system of claim 4, wherein the generalized biomarker model is trained based on the unstructured information.
6. The model-assisted system of claim 5, wherein at least a portion of the unstructured information has been subject to an optical character recognition process.
7. The model-assisted system of claim 1 , wherein determining whether the individual is a candidate for the cohort comprises verifying, based on a medical record associated with the individual, that the individual has been tested for the biomarker.
8. The model-assisted system of claim 1 , wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to:
receive, from the generalized biomarker model, a second output indicating a second group of the population of individuals exceeding a second likelihood threshold of having been tested positive for the first biomarker, the individual being included in the second group.
9. The model-assisted system of claim 8, wherein detennining whether the individual is a candidate for the cohort comprises verifying, based on a medical record associated with the individual, that the individual has tested positive for the biomarker.
10. The model-assisted system of claim 1 , wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to store the first output for access by a user of the generalized biomarker model.
1 1. The model-assisted selection system of claim 1 , wherein the generalized biomarker model generates the first output using a binary classification algorithm.
12. The model-assisted selection system of claim 1 1, wherein the binary classification algorithm includes at least one of a logistic regression, a random forest, gradient boosted trees, support vector machines, or neural networks.
13. The model-assisted system of claim 1, wherein the generalized biomarker model is developed at least in part based on feature vectors extracted from the information based on the one or more second biomarkers.
14. The model-assisted system of claim 13, wherein the feature vectors comprise at least one biomarker token representing text associated with the at least one second biomarker.
15. The model-assisted selection system of claim 1 , wherein the one or more second biomarkers appear in the information more than the first biomarker.
16. The model-assisted system of claim 1 , wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to:
provide the first biomarker to a biomarker specific model, the biomarker specific model being trained based on the first biomarker using the information;
receive, from the biomarker specific model, a third output indicating a third group of the
population of individuals exceeding a likelihood threshold of having been tested for the at least one biomarker; and
verify the accuracy of the generalized biomarker model by comparing the first output to the third output.
17. The model-assisted system of claim 1 , wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to:
search the information for the first biomarker to generate a fourth output indicating a fourth group of the population of individuals having been tested for the at least one biomarker; and verify the accuracy of the generalized biomarker model by comparing the first output to the fourth output.
18. A computerimplemented method for identifying candidates for a cohort based on a biomarker, the method comprising:
accessing a database from which information associated with a population of individuals can be derived;
providing, to a generalized biomarker model, a first biomarker associated with a cohort, the generalized biomarker model being trained based on one or more second biomarkers using the information, wherein the first biomarker is different from the one or more second biomarkers;
receiving, from the generalized biomarker model, a first output indicating a first group of the population of individuals exceeding a first likelihood threshold of having been tested for the first biomarker; and determining, based on the first output, whether an individual from among the first group of the population of individuals is a candidate for the cohort.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein the information comprises medical records associated with the population of individuals.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 19, wherein the medical records include structured information and unstructured information associated with the population of individuals.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 20, wherein the unstructured information includes text written by a health care provider, a radiology report, or a pathology report.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the generalized biomarker model is trained based on the unstructured information.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein determining whether the individual is a candidate for the cohort comprises verifying, based on a medical record associated with the individual, that the individual has been tested for the biomarker.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein the likelihood threshold is adjustable based on levels of efficiency and performance of the model.
25. A model-assisted system, the system comprising:
at least one processor programmed to:
access a database from which information associated with a population of
individuals can be derived;
provide, to a generalized model, a first characteristic associated with a cohort, the generalized model being trained based on one or more second characteristics using the information, wherein the first characteristic is different from the one or more second characteristics;
receive, from the generalized model, a first output indicating a first group of the population of individuals exceeding a first likelihood threshold of been associated with the first characteristic; and
determine, based on the first output, whether an individual from among the first group of the population of individuals is a candidate for the cohort.
26. The model-assisted system of claim 25, wherein:
the first characteristic comprises a first biomarker;
the one or more second characteristics comprise one or more second biomarkers; and the first output is indicative of the first group of individuals having been tested for the first
biomarker.
27. The model-assisted system of claim 25, wherein:
the first characteristic comprises a first drug;
the one or more second characteristics comprise one or more second drugs; and
the first output is indicative of the first group of individuals having been treated using the first drug.
</claims>
</document>
