<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/01,G10L15/16,G10L15/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RIZIO
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDULKADER, Ahmad
MAHMOUD, Mohamed Gamal Mohamed
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70005783
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CHARACTERIZING ACCURACY OF ENSEMBLE MODELS FOR AUTOMATIC SPEECH RECOGNITION
</title>

<abstract>
One embodiment of the present invention sets forth a technique for analyzing transcriptions of a recording. The technique includes storing per-character differences between a first set of characters from a first transcription of the recording and a second set of characters from a second transcription of the recording in a matrix with a fixed width. The technique also includes encoding the per-character differences in the matrix into a vector of the fixed width. The technique further includes outputting the vector as a representation of a pairwise error rate between the first transcription and the second transcription.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for analyzing transcriptions of a recording, comprising:
storing per-character differences between a first set of characters from a first transcription of the recording and a second set of characters from a second transcription of the recording in a matrix with a fixed width; encoding the per-character differences in the matrix into a vector of the fixed width; and
outputting the vector as a representation of a pairwise error rate between the first transcription and the second transcription.
2. The method of claim 1 , further comprising:
applying a machine learning model to features comprising the vector to
produce a score representing an accuracy of the first transcription.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising:
applying one or more thresholds to the score to characterize the accuracy of the first transcription; and
determining a candidacy of the recording for human transcription based on the characterized accuracy of the first transcription.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the first transcription comprises a best transcription of the recording produced by an ensemble model from other
transcriptions in the transcriptions and the second transcription comprises one of the other transcriptions.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the other transcriptions are generated by multiple automatic speech recognition (ASR) engines from voice activity in the recording.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the score comprises an estimated word error rate associated with the first transcription.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein the features further comprise at least one of a length of a transcription, a confidence in the transcription, a letters per second associated with the transcription, and an audio feature associated with the recording.
8. The method of claim 1 , wherein storing the per-character differences between first set of characters and the second set of characters in the matrix comprises:
wrapping the first set of characters around the matrix; and
storing a representation of each per-character difference between the first set of characters and the second set of characters in a corresponding position in the matrix.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein encoding the per-character differences in the matrix into the vector of the fixed width comprises aggregating the per-character differences along columns of the matrix into the vector of the fixed width.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein aggregating the per-character differences along the columns of the matrix into the vector of the fixed width comprises:
for each column of the matrix, combining prime numbers representing rows of the matrix with the stored per-character differences along the rows in the column into an aggregate representation of the stored per-character differences; and
storing the aggregate representation in an element of the vector at the position of the column.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein combining the prime numbers with the stored per-character differences in the rows of the column into the aggregate representation comprises multiplying a subset of the prime numbers representing a subset of rows along the column that store a type of per-character difference.
12. The method of claim 11 , wherein the type of per-character difference comprises at least one of an addition, a substitution, and a deletion.
13. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the steps of: storing per-character differences between a first set of characters and a second set of characters in a matrix with a fixed width;
encoding the per-character differences in the matrix into a vector of the fixed width; and
outputting the vector as a representation of a pairwise error rate between the first set of characters and the second set of characters.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the steps further comprise:
applying a machine learning model to features comprising the vector to
produce a score representing an accuracy of a first transcription comprising the first set of characters;
applying one or more thresholds to the score to characterize the accuracy of the first transcription; and
determining a candidacy of the recording for human transcription based on the characterized accuracy of the first transcription.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the first transcription comprises a best transcription of a recording that is produced by an ensemble model from other transcriptions of the recording.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein storing the per-character differences between first set of characters and the second set of characters in the matrix comprises:
wrapping the first set of characters around the matrix; and
storing a representation of each per-character difference between the first set of characters and the second set of characters in a corresponding position in the matrix.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein encoding the per-character differences in the matrix into the vector of the fixed width comprises: for each column of the matrix, combining prime numbers representing rows of the matrix with the stored per-character differences along the rows in the column into an aggregate representation of the stored per-character differences; and
storing the aggregate representation in an element of the vector at the position of the column.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein combining the prime numbers with the stored per-character differences in the rows of the column into the aggregate representation comprises multiplying a subset of the prime numbers representing a subset of rows along the column that store a type of percharacter difference.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein the type of per-character difference comprises at least one of an addition, a substitution, and a deletion.
20. A system, comprising:
a memory that stores instructions; and
a processor that is coupled to the memory and, when executing the
instructions, is configured to:
store per-character differences between a first set of characters from a first transcription of the recording and a second set of characters from a second transcription of the recording in a matrix with a fixed width;
encode the per-character differences in the matrix into a vector of the fixed width; and
output the vector as a representation of a pairwise error rate between the first transcription and the second transcription.
</claims>
</document>
