<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B8/00,A61B8/08,A61B8/12,G06K9/62,G06K9/66,G06T7/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VOLCANO CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAIR, ANUJA
JENKINS, REBECCA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68393039
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTRALUMINAL ULTRASOUND VESSEL BORDER SELECTION AND ASSOCIATED DEVICES, SYSTEMS, AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is an intraluminal ultrasound imaging system, including a processor circuit in communication with an intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter, wherein the processor circuit is configured to receive a plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images obtained by the intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter during movement of the intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter within a body lumen of a patient. The processor circuit is further configured to select an image from among the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images, generate at least two border contours associated with the lumen within the selected image, display the border contours associated with the lumen, each overlaid on a separate instance of the selected image, receive a user input selecting one of the border contours; and display the selected image overlaid with the selected border contour.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. An intraluminal ultrasound imaging system, comprising:
a processor circuit configured for communication with an intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter, wherein the processor circuit is configured to:
receive a plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images obtained by the intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter during movement of the intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter within a body lumen of a patient;
select an image from among the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images; generate at least two border contours associated with the lumen within the selected image;
output, to a display in communication with the processor circuit, a screen display comprising the at least two border contours associated with the lumen, each overlaid on a separate instance of the selected image;
receive, from a user interface in communication with the processor circuit, a first user input selecting one of the border contours; and
output, to the display, the selected image overlaid with the selected border contour.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor circuit is further configured to:
generate a derived border contour associated with the lumen for at least one additional image from the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images by propagating the selected border contour of the selected image to the at least one additional image.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor circuit is further configured to:
generate a geometric measurement for each border contour; and
output, to the display, the geometric measurement for each border contour.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the geometric measurement comprises at least one of a lumen diameter, a vessel wall outer diameter, a lumen cross-sectional area, or a vessel crosssectional area.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the processor circuit is further configured to:
receive, from the user interface, a second user input to edit the selected border contour;
recalculate the geometric measurement based on the edited border contour; and output, to the display, the selected image overlaid with the edited border contour, along with the recalculated geometric measurement.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor circuit is configured to generate the at least two border contours based on a first value of a statistical measure, and wherein the processor circuit is configured to generate a different border contour based on a second value of the statistical measure.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the processor circuit is configured to receive a second input, from the user interface, to change the statistical measure from the first value to the second value.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor circuit is configured to generate the at least two border contours based on a machine learning algorithm.
9. The system of claim 1, further comprising:
the intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter.
10. The system of claim 1, further comprising:
the display; and
the user interface, wherein the user interface comprises a touch screen of the display.
11. An intraluminal ultrasound imaging method, comprising:
receiving, at a processor circuit in communication with an intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter, a plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images obtained by the intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter during movement of the intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter within a body lumen of a patient;
selecting, using the processor circuit, an image from among the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images;
generating, using the processor circuit, at least two border contours associated with the lumen within the selected image;
outputting, to a display in communication with the processor circuit, a screen display comprising the at least two border contours associated with the lumen, each overlaid on a separate instance of the selected image;
receiving, from a user interface in communication with the processor circuit, a first user input selecting one of the border contours; and
outputting to the display, using the processor circuit, the selected image overlaid with the selected border contour.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
generating a derived border contour associated with the lumen for at least one additional image from the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images by propagating the selected border contour of the selected image to the at least one additional image.
13. The method of claim 11 , further comprising:
generating a geometric measurement for each border contour; and
outputting to the display the geometric measurement for each border contour.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the geometric measurement comprises at least one of a lumen diameter, a vessel wall outer diameter, a lumen cross-sectional area, or a vessel crosssectional area.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising:
receiving, from the user interface, a second user input to edit the selected border contour;
recalculating the geometric measurement based on the edited border contour; and outputting, to the display, the selected image overlaid with the edited border contour, along with the recalculated geometric measurement.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
generating the at least two border contours based on a first value of a statistical measure; and
generating a different border contour based on a second value of the statistical measure.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising receiving a second input, from the user interface, to change the statistical measure from the first value to the second value.
18. The method of claim 11 , wherein the at least two border contours are generated based on a machine learning algorithm.
19. An intravascular ultrasound imaging system for use in peripheral blood vessels, the system comprising:
an intravascular ultrasound imaging catheter configured to obtain a plurality of intravascular ultrasound images during movement of the intravascular ultrasound imaging catheter within a peripheral blood vessel of a patient; and
a processor circuit configured for communication with the intravascular ultrasound imaging catheter, wherein the processor circuit is configured to:
receive the plurality of intravascular ultrasound images obtained by the intravascular ultrasound imaging catheter;
select an image from among the plurality of intravascular ultrasound images; generate at least two border contours associated with the peripheral blood vessel within the selected image;
output, to a display in communication with the processor circuit, a screen display comprising the at least two border contours associated with the peripheral blood vessel, each overlaid on a separate instance of the selected image;
receive, from a user interface in communication with the processor circuit, a first user input selecting one of the border contours; and
output, to the display, the selected image overlaid with the selected border contour.
</claims>
</document>
