<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01B79/00,A01G13/00,G01N33/00,G05B15/02,G06K9/78
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ARUGGA A.I FARMING
</assignee>

<inventors>
GELTNER, IDDO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74114481
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED PLANT MONITORING SYSTEMS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for managing operation of plant growth zone(s) are presented, the management system comprising: a storage device comprising a database that stores data indicative of plant characteristics for each plant in the plant growth zone, the plant characteristics comprising plant spatial and environmental characteristics and plant location in the plant growth zone; and a data processing unit comprising a database manager configured to create a new, or update an existing, database entry record corresponding to a plant in the plant growth zone, in response to sensing data being received from sensing system(s), the sensing data being part of visit data indicative of a visit by the sensing system(s) to the individual plant, and create a data retrieval record in response to data request input with respect to plant(s) in the plant growth zone, the database manager comprising: a sub-plant features extraction module configured to identify in the visit data spatial sub¬ plant features of each plant sensed during a visit, and a plant structure data generation module configured to generate plant structure data corresponding to the identified spatial sub-plant features, the database manager being configured to create the new, or update the existing, database entry record, to store said plant structure data in the database, and identify, in the data request input, each plant, and utilize the plant structure data stored in the database to create the respective data retrieval record; the plant structure data is configured such that contents of the database entry record and/or the data retrieval record comprise a virtual representation of the corresponding plant's structure in accordance with locations of the spatial sub-plant features and their dimensions matching a real structure of the plant.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A plant management system for managing operation of one or more plant growth zones being subscribers of the management system, the management system comprising: a storage device comprising a database that stores data indicative of plant characteristics for each individual plant in the plant growth zone, the plant characteristics comprising plant spatial and environmental characteristics and plant location in the plant growth zone; and
a data processing unit comprising a database manager configured and operable to create a new, or update an existing, database entry record corresponding to an individual plant in the plant growth zone, in response to sensing data being received from one or more sensing systems, the sensing data being part of visit data indicative of a visit by said one or more sensing systems to the individual plant, and
create a data retrieval record in response to data request input with respect to one or more individual plants in the plant growth zone,
said database manager comprising:
a sub-plant features extraction module configured and operable to identify in the visit data spatial sub-plant features of each individual plant sensed during a visit, and a plant structure data generation module configured and operable to generate plant structure data corresponding to the identified spatial sub-plant features,
the database manager being configured and operable to create the new, or update the existing, database entry record, to store said plant structure data in the database, and identify, in the data request input, each of said one or more individual plants, and utilize the plant structure data stored in the database to create the respective data retrieval record; said plant structure data is configured such that contents of the database entry record and/or the data retrieval record comprise a virtual representation of the corresponding individual plant's structure in accordance with locations of the spatial sub-plant features and their dimensions matching a real structure of the individual plant.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said visit data comprises time data indicative of time of execution of said visit by the one or more sensing systems in the plant growth zone, thereby enabling recordation of a history of visits with respect to each individual plant in the plant growth zone.
3. The system according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said visit data comprises location data indicative of position of execution of said visit by the one or more sensing systems in the plant growth zone, thereby enabling recordation and/or retrieval of the plant location of each individual plant in the plant growth zone.
4. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said visit data comprises environmental data indicative of said environmental characteristics of each individual plant, and wherein said database entry record and/or data retrieval record is indicative of temperature of a portion of the individual plant and/or indicative of temperature and/or humidity in a vicinity of each individual plant in the plant growth zone.
5. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said visit data comprises soil condition data, and wherein said database entry record and/or data retrieval record is indicative of nutrition and/or water content associated with each individual plant in the plant growth zone.
6. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said spatial sub plant features of each individual plant comprise one or more of the following: geometry and/or dimensions and/or health state and/or number and/or temperature of branches and/or trusses and/or inflorescences and/or leaves and/or flowers and/or fruit.
7. The system according to claim 6, wherein said health state of the flowers comprises pollination and/or pruning state of the flowers.
8. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said database manager is further configured and operable to analyze said stored plant structure data relating to each sub-plant feature of each individual plant and, upon identifying a predetermined condition of one or more sub-plant features, generate corresponding operation data to apply a visit to the relevant individual plant.
9. The system according to claim 8, wherein said operation data is indicative of one or more treatment plans to be applied by one or more treatment systems to said spatial sub plant feature(s) of the relevant individual plant(s).
10. The system according to claim 9, wherein said treatment plan comprises applying pollination and/or pruning and/or disinfection to said spatial sub-plant feature of the relevant individual plant.
11. The system according to claim 9 or 10, wherein said database manager is configured and operable to create a database entry treatment record in response to treatment data being received from the one or more treatment systems, the treatment data comprising data indicative of a treatment applied by said one or more treatment systems to a spatial sub plant feature of the relevant individual plant, to thereby store said database entry treatment record and assign it to said spatial sub-plant feature.
12. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising one or more sensing systems configured and operable to provide said sensing data, each sensing system comprising one or more sensors including at least one imaging sensor such that said visit data comprises image data of said spatial sub-plant features.
13. The system according to any one of claims 9 to 12, comprising one or more treatment systems configured and operable to apply said one or more treatment plans.
14. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising a central station comprising said storage device and said database manager, the central station being configured as a computer system for data communication, via a communication network, with the one or more sensing systems and/or the one or more treatment systems. 15. The system according to claim 14, wherein said one or more sensing systems and/or treatment systems are carried by one or more robotic vehicles configured to navigate inside the plant growth zone, based on operation data from said database manager, to apply said one or more visits to said one or more individual plants in the plant growth zone.
16. A method for managing data of plants in one or more plant growth zones, the method comprising: receiving visit data indicative of plant characteristics for one or more individual plants in the plant growth zone, the plant characteristics comprising plant spatial and environmental characteristics and plant location in the plant growth zone; the visit data comprising sensing data obtained from the one or more individual plants in the one or more plant growth zones,
analyzing the sensing data to identify spatial sub-plant features of each individual plant sensed during a visit, and generating plant structure data corresponding to the identified spatial sub-plant features,
creating a new, or updating an existing, database entry record corresponding to an individual plant in the plant growth zone, to store said plant structure data,
said plant structure data is configured such that contents of the database entry record comprise a virtual representation of the corresponding individual plant's structure in accordance with locations of the spatial sub-plant features and their dimensions matching a real structure of the individual plant.
17. A method for managing data of plants in one or more plant growth zones, the method comprising creating, in response to a data request, a data retrieval record from stored plant structure data corresponding to one or more individual plants in the one or more plant growth zones and generated from visit data obtained from one or more visits to the one or more individual plants, contents of the stored plant structure data and/or the data retrieval record comprising virtual representations of the one or more individual plants in accordance with locations of spatial sub-plant features and their dimensions matching real structure of the one or more individual plants. 18. The method according to claim 16 or 17, wherein said visit data comprises time data indicative of time of execution of said visit, thereby enabling recordation and/or retrieval of a history of visits with respect to each individual plant in the plant growth zone.
19. The method according to any one of claims 16 to 18, wherein said visit data comprises location data indicative of position of execution of said visit, thereby enabling recordation and/or retrieval of plant location of each individual plant in the plant growth zone.
20. The method according to any one of claims 16 to 19, wherein said visit data comprises environmental data indicative of environmental characteristics of each individual plant, thereby enabling recordation and/or retrieval of temperature of a portion of the individual plant and/or temperature and/or humidity in a vicinity of each individual plant in the plant growth zone.
21. The method according to any one of claims 16 to 20, wherein said visit data comprises soil condition data, thereby enabling recordation and/or retrieval of nutrition and/or water content associated with each individual plant in the plant growth zone.
22. The method according to any one of claims 16 to 21, wherein said spatial sub-plant features of each individual plant comprise one or more of the following: geometry and/or dimensions and/or health state and/or number and/or temperature of branches and/or trusses and/or inflorescences and/or leaves and/or flowers and/or fruit.
23. The method according to claim 22, wherein said health state of the flowers comprises pollination and/or pruning state of the flowers.
24. The method according to any one of claims 16 to 23, comprising analyzing said stored plant structure data relating to each sub-plant feature of each individual plant and, upon identifying a predetermined condition of one or more sub-plant features, generating corresponding operation data to apply a visit to the relevant individual plant.
25. The method according to claim 24, wherein said operation data is indicative of one or more treatment plans to be applied to said spatial sub-plant feature(s) of the relevant individual plant(s).
26. The method according to claim 25, wherein said treatment plan comprises applying pollination and/or pruning and/or disinfection to said spatial sub-plant feature of the relevant individual plant.
27. The method according to any one of claims 16 or 18 to 26, wherein said sensing data comprises imaging data.
</claims>
</document>
