<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/215
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HE, YEYE
ZHAO CHEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72140269
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
END-TO-END FUZZY ENTITY MATCHING
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and techniques for end-to-end fuzzy entity matching are described herein. A first input and a second input may be received. The first input and the second input may be evaluated to identify common attribute types. A set of attribute entity matching models may be selected that correspond to the attribute types. The first input and the second input may be evaluated using the set of attribute entity matching models to determine a set of weighted scores for attribute pairs in the first input and the second input. The set of weighted scores may be evaluated using a table-level entity matching model to identify a common entity included in the first input and the second input. A linking dataset may be generated that includes a cross-linking facility indicating a relationship between a first entity descriptor in the first input and a second entity descriptor in the second input.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for end-to-end entity matching, the system comprising:
at least one processor; and
memory including instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to:
receive a first input and a second input;
evaluate the first input and the second input to identify common attribute types;
select a set of attribute entity matching models that correspond to the attribute types;
evaluate the first input and the second input with the set of attribute entity matching models to determine a set of weighted scores for attribute pairs in the first input and the second input;
evaluate the set of weighted scores with a table-level entity matching model to identify a common entity included in the first input and the second input; and generate a linking dataset including a cross-linking facility that indicates a relationship between a first entity descriptor in the first input and a second entity descriptor in the second input.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions to evaluate the first input and the second input to identify common attribute types further comprises instructions to process each attribute value of the first input and the second input with a hierarchical attribute-type detection model that includes a character evaluation layer and word evaluation layer. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the hierarchical attribute-type detection model includes a bidirectional gated recurrent unit layer.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of attribute entity matching models includes one or more attribute-type specific attribute entity matching model.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of attribute entity matching models includes a unified attribute entity matching model that corresponds to an unknown attribute included in the common attribute types.
6. The system of claim 5, further comprising instructions to:
generate a new attribute-type specific entity matching model from the unified attribute entity matching model and results of the evaluation of the set of weighted scores with the table-level entity matching model; and
retrain an attribute-type detection model used to identify the common attribute types with the new attribute-type specific entity matching model.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions to evaluate the set of weighted scores with the table-level entity matching model to identify the common entity included in the first input and the second input further comprises instructions to:
calculate a probability of a match between an entity in the first input and an entity in the second input through use of the set of weighted scores, wherein the common entity is identified based on the probability of a match being outside a threshold.
8. A method for end-to-end entity matching, the method comprising:
receiving a first input and a second input;
evaluating the first input and the second input to identify common attribute types; selecting a set of attribute entity matching models corresponding to the attribute types;
evaluating the first input and the second input using the set of attribute entity matching models to determine a set of weighted scores for attribute pairs in the first input and the second input;
evaluating the set of weighted scores using a table-level entity matching model to identify a common entity included in the first input and the second input; and
generating a linking dataset including a cross-linking facility indicating a relationship between a first entity descriptor in the first input and a second entity descriptor in the second input.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the evaluating the first input and the second input to identify common attribute types further comprises processing each attribute value of the first input and the second input using a hierarchical attribute-type detection model including a character evaluation layer and word evaluation layer.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the hierarchical attribute-type detection model includes a bidirectional gated recurrent unit layer.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the set of attribute entity matching models includes one or more attribute-type specific attribute entity matching model.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the set of attribute entity matching models includes a unified attribute entity matching model corresponding to an unknown attribute included in the common attribute types.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising:
generating a new attribute-type specific entity matching model using the unified attribute entity matching model and results of the evaluation of the set of weighted scores using the table-level entity matching model; and
retraining an attribute-type detection model used to identify the common attribute types using the new attribute-type specific entity matching model.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the evaluating the set of weighted scores using the table-level entity matching model to identify the common entity included in the first input and the second input further comprises:
calculating a probability of a match between an entity in the first input and an entity in the second input using the set of weighted scores, wherein the common entity is identified based on the probability of a match being outside a threshold.
15. At least one computer-readable storage medium including instructions for end-toend entity matching that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform the methods of any of claims 8 to 14.
</claims>
</document>
