<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (CHINA) INVESTMENT COMPANY
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
IBM UNITED KINGDOM
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEHAN, ELINOR
EIFERT, CHERYL
HUETTNER, CLAUDIA
MICHELINI, VANESSA
WANG FANG
XU JIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71517795
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETERMINING DRUG EFFECTIVENESS RANKING FOR A PATIENT USING MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
Computer based methods, systems, and computer readable media for intelligently accessing various types of pharmaceutical information in a content repository and ranking drugs at the variant level, gene level, and pathway level. In some cases, drugs that target the same gene, gene variant, or biological pathway may be ranked based upon in vitro, pre-clinical, clinical, or post-clinical evidence. To determine ranking of a plurality of drugs, information pertaining to drug administration is analyzed for the drugs. For a plurality of drugs, attributes corresponding to the drug are determined, wherein the attributes include a variant or a gene targeted by the drug, and a biological pathway comprising the targeted variant or gene. The plurality of drugs are ranked according to a drug effectiveness score based on one or more of a determined efficacy, potency, or toxicity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining drug characteristics comprising:
analyzing extracted information pertaining to drug administration for a plurality of drugs;
determining for each drug, one or more drug characteristics for a plurality of attributes corresponding to the drug, wherein the attributes include a variant or a gene targeted by the drug, and a biological pathway comprising the variant or the gene; and
ranking the plurality of drugs according to a drug effectiveness score based on the determined drug characteristics.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the drug characteristics are selected from one or more of the group consisting of efficacy, toxicity, and potency.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein the extracted information comprises pre-clinical, clinical, and post clinical information, and wherein the extracted information comprises drug characteristics.
4. The method of claim 3, comprising:
training a machine learning module with the extracted information;
predicting one or more drug characteristics for each drug of the plurality of drugs based on the trained machine learning module; and
ranking the drugs for treatment of a patient-specific cancer, wherein each drug targets a particular gene, gene variant, or biological pathway associated with the patient's cancer, and based on the predicted drug characteristics.
5. The method of claim 1 , comprising:
identifying, for a plurality of drugs, common structural features and corresponding drug characteristics; identifying which of the drugs are associated with toxicity; and
predicting, using a machine learning module trained on information identifying the common structural features and the drug characteristics, other drugs of the plurality of drugs associated with toxicity.
6. The method of claim 1 , wherein the plurality of drugs are classified into groups based on a common target, and ranking the drugs within each group.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the attributes comprise patient-specific information indicating a gene, gene variant or biological pathway for a patient, and further comprising:
identifying a plurality of drugs that target the gene, gene variant or biological pathway of the patient; and ranking the identified drugs for the patient based on the drug effectiveness score.
8. A computer system for classifying documents within a content repository wherein the system comprises at least one processor configured to:
analyze extracted information pertaining to drug administration for a plurality of drugs;
determine for each drug, one or more drug characteristics for a plurality of attributes corresponding to the drug, wherein the attributes include a variant or a gene targeted by the drug, and a biological pathway comprising the variant or the gene; and
rank the plurality of drugs according to a drug effectiveness score based on the determined drug characteristics.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the drug characteristics are selected from one or more of the group consisting of efficacy, toxicity, and potency.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the extracted information comprises pre-clinical, clinical, and post clinical information, and wherein the extracted information comprises drug characteristics.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to:
train a machine learning module with the extracted information;
predict one or more drug characteristics for each drug of the plurality of drugs based on the trained machine learning module; and
rank the drugs for treatment of a patient-specific cancer, wherein each drug targets a particular gene, gene variant, or biological pathway associated with the patient's cancer, and based on the predicted drug characteristics.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to:
identify, for a plurality of drugs, common structural features and corresponding drug characteristics;
identify which of the drugs are associated with toxicity; and
predict, using a machine learning module trained on information identifying the common structural features and the drug characteristics, other drugs of the plurality of drugs associated with toxicity.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of drugs are classified into groups based on a common target, and wherein the processor is further configured to rank the drugs within each group.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the attributes comprise patient-specific information indicating a gene, gene variant or biological pathway for a patient, and wherein the processor is further configured to:
identify a plurality of drugs that target the gene, gene variant or biological pathway of the patient; and rank the identified drugs for the patient based on the drug effectiveness score.
15. A computer program product for classifying documents in a content repository, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to:
analyze extracted information pertaining to drug administration for a plurality of drugs;
determine for each drug, one or more drug characteristics for a plurality of attributes corresponding to the drug, wherein the attributes include a variant or a gene targeted by the drug, and a biological pathway comprising the variant or the gene; and
rank the plurality of drugs according to a drug effectiveness score based on the determined drug characteristics.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the drug characteristics are selected from one or more of the group consisting of efficacy, toxicity, and potency.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the extracted information comprises pre-clinical, clinical, and post clinical information, and wherein the extracted information comprises drug characteristics.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the program instructions are further executable to: train a machine learning module with the extracted information;
predict one or more drug characteristics for each drug of the plurality of drugs based on the trained machine learning module; and
rank the drugs for treatment of a patient-specific cancer, wherein each drug targets a particular gene, gene variant, or biological pathway associated with the patient's cancer, and based on the predicted drug characteristics.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the program instructions are further executable to: identify, for a plurality of drugs, common structural features and corresponding drug characteristics;
identify which of the drugs are associated with toxicity; and
predict, using a machine learning module trained on information identifying the common structural features and the drug characteristics, other drugs of the plurality of drugs associated with toxicity.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the attributes comprise patient-specific information indicating a gene, gene variant or biological pathway for a patient, and wherein the program instructions are further executable to:
identify a plurality of drugs that target the gene, gene variant or biological pathway of the patient; and rank the identified drugs for the patient based on the drug effectiveness score.
</claims>
</document>
