<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W72/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
MONDAL, BISHWARUP
XIONG GANG
ZHANG, YUSHU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70918985
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MECHANISM AND SIGNALING ON CORESET AND PUCCH RESOURCE GROUPING FOR MULTI-TRP OPERATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, devices, and techniques for physical uplink control channel (PUCCH) resource grouping in wireless communication systems that include transmission and reception points (TRPs) are described. A described technique performed by a user equipment (UE) includes receiving a PUCCH resource group configuration associated with TRPs, including a first TRP and a second TRP; and performing PUCCH transmissions to the TRPs in accordance with the PUCCH resource group configuration. The PUCCH resource group configuration can include a configuration for a first group of PUCCH resources associated with the first TRP and a second group of PUCCH resources associated with the second TRP.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method comprising:
receiving, by a user equipment (UE), a physical uplink control channel (PUCCH) resource group configuration, wherein the PUCCH resource group configuration comprises a configuration for a first group of PUCCH resources associated with a first transmission and reception point (TRP) and a second group of PUCCH resources associated with a second TRP; and
performing PUCCH transmissions to TRPs, including the first TRP and the second TRP, in accordance with the PUCCH resource group configuration.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein a first part of the first group of PUCCH resources is time-division multiplexed with a first part of the second group of PUCCH resources, and wherein a second part of the first group of PUCCH resources is not time-division multiplexed with a second part of the second group of PUCCH resources.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein receiving the PUCCH resource group
configuration comprises receiving a PUCCH resource indicator (PRI) configuration for a first PRI and a second PRI, wherein the first part of the first group of PUCCH resources and the first part of the second group of PUCCH resources is addressed by the first PRI, and wherein the second part of the first group of PUCCH resources and the second part of the second group of PUCCH resources is addressed by the second PRI.
4. The method of claim 3, comprising:
receiving downlink control information (DCI) messages that schedule the
PUCCH transmissions, wherein the PUCCH transmissions use resources indicated by PRIs included in the DCI messages.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the PUCCH resource group
configuration comprises receiving, via radio resource control (RRC) signaling, medium access control (MAC) control element (CE) signaling, or both, a serving cell identifier, a bandwidth part (BWP) identifier, a PUCCH resource identifier, and a PUCCH resource group identifier.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the PUCCH resource group configuration comprises a group association between a PUCCH resource group and a control resource set (CORESET) group.
7. The method of claim 6, comprising:
receiving a CORESET pool configuration that comprises a serving cell identifier, a bandwidth part (BWP) identifier, a CORESET identifier, and a CORESET pool identifier associated with the CORESET pool.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the group association is signaled by information comprising a serving cell identifier, a BWP identifier, a CORESET identifier, and a PUCCH resource group identifier.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein a first part of the first group of PUCCH resources is time-division multiplexed with a first part of the second group of PUCCH resources, and wherein a second part of the first group of PUCCH resources at least partially overlaps with a second part of the second group of PUCCH resources.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein performing the PUCCH transmissions comprises: transmitting first hybrid automatic repeat request (HAR.Q) feedback to the first
TRP using the first part of the first group of PUCCH resources; and
transmitting second HARQ feedback to the second TRP using the first part of the second group of PUCCH resources.
11. A user equipment (UE) comprising:
one or more processors;
a transceiver; and
a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
receiving, via the transceiver, a physical uplink control channel (PUCCH) resource group configuration, wherein the PUCCH resource group configuration comprises a configuration for a first group of PUCCH resources associated with a first transmission and reception point (TRP) and a second group of PUCCH resources associated with a second TRP; and
operating the transceiver to perform PUCCH transmissions to TRPs, including the first TRP and the second TRP, in accordance with the PUCCH resource group configuration.
12. The UE of claim 11, wherein a first part of the first group of PUCCH resources is time-division multiplexed with a first part of the second group of PUCCH resources, and wherein a second part of the first group of PUCCH resources is not time-division multiplexed with a second part of the second group of PUCCH resources.
13. The UE of claim 12, wherein receiving the PUCCH resource group configuration comprises receiving a PUCCH resource indicator (PRI) configuration for a first PRI and a second PRI, wherein the first part of the first group of PUCCH resources and the first part of the second group of PUCCH resources is addressed by the first PRI, and wherein the second part of the first group of PUCCH resources and the second part of the second group of PUCCH resources is addressed by the second PRI.
14. The UE of claim 13, wherein the operations comprise:
receiving downlink control information (DCI) messages that schedule the PUCCH transmissions, wherein the PUCCH transmissions use resources indicated by PRIs included in the DCI messages.
15. The UE of claim 11, wherein receiving the PUCCH resource group configuration comprises receiving, via radio resource control (RRC) signaling, medium access control (MAC) control element (CE) signaling, or both, a serving cell identifier, a bandwidth part (BWP) identifier, a PUCCH resource identifier, and a PUCCH resource group identifier.
16. The UE of claim 11, wherein the PUCCH resource group configuration comprises a group association between a PUCCH resource group and a control resource set
(CORESET) group.
17. The UE of claim 16, wherein the operations comprise:
receiving a CORESET pool configuration that comprises a serving cell identifier, a bandwidth part (BWP) identifier, a CORESET identifier, and a CORESET pool identifier associated with the CORESET pool.
18. The UE of claim 16, wherein the group association is signaled by information comprising a serving cell identifier, a BWP identifier, a CORESET identifier, and a PUCCH resource group identifier.
19. The UE of claim 11, wherein a first part of the first group of PUCCH resources is time-division multiplexed with a first part of the second group of PUCCH resources, and wherein a second part of the first group of PUCCH resources at least partially overlaps with a second part of the second group of PUCCH resources.
20. The UE of claim 19, wherein performing the PUCCH transmissions comprises: transmitting first hybrid automatic repeat request (HARQ) feedback to the first
TRP on the first part of the first group of PUCCH resources; and
transmitting second HARQ feedback to the second TRP on the first part of the second group of PUCCH resources.
21. A base station comprising:
a transceiver; and
one or more processors coupled with the transceiver, wherein the one or more processors are configured to provide via the transceiver, a physical uplink control channel (PUCCH) resource group configuration, wherein the PUCCH resource group
configuration comprises a configuration for a first group of PUCCH resources associated with a first transmission and reception point (TRP) and a second group of PUCCH resources associated with a second TRP,
wherein the one or more processors are configured to operate the transceiver to receive one or more PUCCH transmissions to one or more TRPs in accordance with the PUCCH resource group configuration.
22. The base station of claim 21, wherein a first part of the first group of PUCCH resources is time-division multiplexed with a first part of the second group of PUCCH resources, and wherein a second part of the first group of PUCCH resources is not timedivision multiplexed with a second part of the second group of PUCCH resources.
23. The base station of claim 22, wherein the one or more processors are configured to provide a PUCCH resource indicator (PRI) configuration for a first PRI and a second PRI, wherein the first part of the first group of PUCCH resources and the first part of the second group of PUCCH resources is addressed by the first PRI, and wherein the second part of the first group of PUCCH resources and the second part of the second group of PUCCH resources is addressed by the second PRI.
24. The base station of claim 21, wherein the PUCCH resource group configuration comprises a group association between a PUCCH resource group and a control resource set (CORESET) pool.
</claims>
</document>
