<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/145,G01N27/32,G01N27/327
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OHIO STATE INNOVATION FOUNDATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CROWLEY, JACK
DREW, MARK
JONES, TRAVIS
METZLER, SANDRA
PRAKASH, SHAURYA
SUBRAMANIAM, VISHWANATH
WEST, JOSEPH
KADOWAKI, Jonathan
LLAPI, Redi
SCARMUZZI, Alexander
YOTEBIENG, Marcel
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73552952
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR MAKING A DETERMINATION ABOUT A PRESENCE OR AN ABSENCE OF A PARASITE IN A BLOOD SAMPLE
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are methods and apparatus for making a determination whether a blood sample is, or is not, infected with a malaria parasite. The determination is made using a trained machine-learning (ML) algorithm. In some aspects, a microfluidic chip is used for the concentration of red blood cells infected with these parasites from uninfected red blood cells, the staining of the blood sample which differentially stains infected and uninfected red blood cells, and holds the sample of interest for imaging. The microfluidic chip is inserted into an optical subsystem that magnifies the image created from transmitted light microscopy. The magnified image is captured with a camera, and a trained ML algorithm assesses if the sample does or does not contain the parasite. Generally, the ML algorithm is executed on a portable computing device such as a smartphone.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising:
obtaining a blood sample and staining it using a blood smear test strip;
acquiring an image of the stained blood sample in the blood smear test strip using an image acquisition device in communication with a computing device;
analyzing, using a trained machine-learning (ML) algorithm executing on the computing device, the image of the stained blood sample; and
determining, using the computing device, a presence or an absence of a malaria parasite in the blood sample based on the analysis of the image of the stained blood sample using the trained ML algorithm.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing, by the computing device, an indication of the determined presence or absence of the malaria parasite in the blood sample.
3. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the image acquisition device and the
computing device comprise a smartphone.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the smartphone is wirelessly connected to a network for receiving and/or transmitting data.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the network comprises a cloud -based network.
6. The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the ML algorithm comprises a neural network.
7. The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the ML algorithm is trained using a training set of images, wherein each image of the training set of images is known to be malaria positive or known to be malaria negative.
8. The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the stained blood sample is magnified when acquiring the image of the stained blood sample.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the ML algorithm is trained using successively coarser images of a same stained blood sample such that magnification of the stained blood sample is not required to determine the presence or absence of a malaria parasite in the blood sample based on the analysis of the image of the stained blood sample using the trained ML algorithm.
10. The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the blood sample is stained prior to the acquisition of the image using the blood smear test strip where blood from the blood sample flows into a chamber of the blood smear test strip and mixes with both a preloaded parasite stain and an aqueous diluent/buffer and is incubated.
11. An apparatus comprised of:
an image capture device;
a memory; and
a processor in communication with the memory and the image capture device, wherein the processor executes computer-readable instructions comprising a trained machine-learning
(ML) algorithm stored in the memory that cause the processor to; capture, using the image capture device, an image of a stained blood sample; analyze, using the trained ML algorithm, the image of the blood sample; and
determine a presence or an absence of a malaria parasite in the blood sample based on the analysis of the image of the stained blood sample using the trained ML algorithm.
12. The device of claim 11, further comprising providing, by the computing device, an indication of the determined presence or absence of the malaria parasite in the blood sample.
13. The device of claim 11 or claim 12, wherein the apparatus comprises a smartphone.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein the smartphone is wirelessly connected to a network for receiving and/or transmitting data.
15. The device of claim 14, wherein the network comprises a cloud-based network.
16. The device of any one of claims 11-15, wherein the ML algorithm comprises a neural network.
17. The device of any one of claims 11-16, wherein the ML algorithm is trained using a training set of images, wherein each image of the training set of images is known to be malaria positive or known to be malaria negative.
18. The device of any one of claims 11-17, further comprising a magnification device, wherein the stained blood sample is magnified by the magnification device when acquiring the image of the stained blood sample.
19. The device of claim 17, wherein the ML algorithm is trained using successively coarser images of a same stained blood sample such that magnification of the stained blood sample is not required to determine the presence or absence of a malaria parasite in the blood sample based on the analysis of the image of the stained blood sample using the trained ML algorithm
20. The device of any one of claims 11-19, wherein the blood sample is stained prior to the acquisition of the image using a blood smear test strip where blood from the blood sample flows into a chamber of the blood smear test strip and mixes with both a preloaded parasite stain and an aqueous diiuent/buffer and is incubated.
21. A method comprising:
introducing a blood sample into a microfluidic chip, wherein the microfluidic chip concentrates red blood cells infected with a parasite from uninfected red blood cells using a magnetic field produced by the chip, selectively stains the parasites, and holds the blood sample for imaging;
acquiring an image of the stained blood sample in the microfluidic chip using an optical subsystem and an image acquisition device in communication with a computing device, wherein the optical subsystem magnifies the stained blood sample such that the acquired image is of the magnified blood sample; analyzing, using a trained machine-learning (ML) algorithm executing on the computing device, the magnified image of the blood sample to assess whether the sample does or does not contain a parasitic infection.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the microfluidic chip is inserted into the optical
subsystem.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the optica! subsystem uses two lenses to magnify the image of the stained blood sample created from transmitted light microscopy.
24. The method of any of claims 21-23, wherein the image acquisition device comprises a camera of a smartphone.
25. The method of any one of claims 21-24, further comprising providing, by the computing device, an indication of the determined presence or absence of the parasite in the blood sample.
26. The method of claim 21 or claim 22, wherein the image acquisition device and the computing device comprise a smartphone.
27. The method of any one of claims 21-25, wherein the ML algorithm comprises a neural network.
28. The method of any one of claims 21-27, wherein the ML algorithm is trained using a training set of images, wherein each image of the training set of images is known to be positive or known to be negative for the parasite.
29. The method of any one of claims 21-28, wherein the parasite comprises a Plasmodium parasite.
30. A system comprised of:
a microfluidic chip;
an optical subsystem; and
a smartphone, wherein the smartphone comprises:
an image capture device;
a memory; and
a processor in communication with the memory and the image capture device, wherein the processor executes computer-readable instructions comprising a trained machine-learning(ML) algorithm stored in the memory that cause the processor to:
capture, using the image capture device, an image of a blood sample in a microfluidic chip, wherein the microfluidic chip concentrates red blood cells infected with a parasite from uninfected red blood cells, stains the blood sample by differentially staining infected and uninfected red blood ceils, and holds the blood sample for imaging, and wherein the acquired image is of the stained blood sample in the microfluidic chip acquired using the optical subsystem and the image acquisition device in communication with the processor, wherein the optical subsystem magnifies the stained blood sample such that the acquired image is of the magnified blood sample; and
analyze, using a trained machine-learning (ML) algorithm executing on the processor, the magnified image of the blood sample to assess whether the sample does or does not contain a parasitic infection
31. The system of claim 30, wherein the microfluidic chip is inserted into the optical subsystem.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein the optical subsystem uses two lenses to magnify the image of the stained blood sample created from transmitted light microscopy.
33. The system of any one of claims 30-32, further comprising providing, by the
smartphone, an indication of the determined presence or absence of the malaria parasite in the blood sample.
34. The system of any one of claims 30-33, wherein the ML algorithm comprises a neural network.
35. The system of any one of claims 30-34, wherein the ML algorithm is trained using a training set of images, wherein each image of the training set of images is known to be positive or known to be negative for the parasite.
36. The system of any one of claims 30-35, wherein the parasite comprises a Plasmodium parasite.
</claims>
</document>
