<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01J37/153,H01J37/244
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KLA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
EYRING, STEFAN
SEARS, CHRISTOPHER
STOSCHUS, HENNING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71071211
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTION AND CORRECTION OF SYSTEM RESPONSES IN REAL-TIME
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments may include methods, systems, and apparatuses for correcting a response function of an electron beam tool. The correcting may include modulating an electron beam parameter having a frequency; emitting an electron beam based on the electron beam parameter towards a specimen, thereby scattering electrons, wherein the electron beam is described by a source wave function having a source phase and a landing angle; detecting a portion of the scattered electrons at an electron detector, thereby yielding electron data including an electron wave function having an electron phase and an electron landing angle; determining, using a processor, a phase delay between the source phase and the electron phase, thereby yielding a latency; and correcting, using the processor, the response function of the electron beam tool using the latency and a difference between the source wave function and the electron wave function.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising:
correcting a response ftmction of an electron beam tool by:
modulating an electron beam parameter having a frequency;
emitting an electron beam based on the electron beam parameter towards a specimen, thereby scattering electrons, wherein the electron beam is described by a source wave function having a source phase and a landing angle;
detecting a portion of the scattered electrons at an electron detector, thereby yielding electron data including an electron wave function having an electron phase and an electron landing angle;
determining, using a processor, a phase delay between the source phase and the electron phase, thereby yielding a latency; and
correcting, using the processor, the response function of the electron beam tool using the latency and a difference between the source wave function and tile electron wave function.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the scattered electrons include backscattered electrons, and wherein the method further comprises, with the electron beam tool:
detecting a portion of the backscattered electrons at a backscattered electron detector, thereby yielding backscattered electron data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein correcting the response function includes subtracting the backscattered electron data from the electron data.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein coirecting the response function includes:
extrapolating, using the processor, a spectral distribution of the backscattered electron data towards a lower energy, thereby yielding an extrapolated backscattered electron data; and subtracting, using the processor, the extrapolated backscattered electron data from the electron data.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein correcting the response ftmction includes: modelling, using the processor, an energy distribution function of the backscattered electron data, thereby yielding a modeled energy distribution function; and
calibrating, using the processor, the modeled energy distribution function using one or more measurements taken using the electron beam tool.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein correcting the response function includes determining a relative fraction of a measurement parameter and a specimen property based on of die backscattered electron data to a sum of the backscattered electron data and the electron data.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising storing the relative fraction on an electronic data storage unit.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the correcting the response function of the electron beam tool includes using a machine learning model, the machine learning model trained using the stored relative fraction stored on the electronic data storage unit.
9. lire method of claim 1, further comprising, with the electron beam tool:
detecting a second portion of the backscattered electrons at an opposing electron detector, thereby yielding an opposing electron data;
comparing, using the processor, the electron data and the opposing electron data to generate tilt data; and
changing a tilt of the electron beam using the tilt data.
10. A system, comprising:
an electron beam tool including:
an electron beam emitter configured to emit electrons in an electron beam, wherein the electron beam is described by a source wave function having a source phase and a landing angle;
a stage configured to hold a specimen in a path of the electron beam;
an electron detector configured to detect a portion of the electrons scattered by the electron beam striking the specimen and thereby yield electron data including an electron wave function having an electron phase and an electron landing angle; and a controller in electronic communication with the electron beam tool, the controller having a processor; and
wherein the controller is configured to:
instruct the electron beam emitter to modulate an electron beam parameter of the electron beam, the electron beam parameter having a frequency;
determine a phase delay between the source phase and the electron phase, thereby yielding a latency; and
correct a response function of the electron beam tool using the latency and a difference between the source wave function and the electron wave fbnction.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the scattered electrons include backscattered electrons; and wherein the system further comprises:
a backscattered electron detector configured to detect a portion of backscattered electrons and thereby yield backscattered electron data.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the controller is configured to correct the response function by subtracting the backscattered electron data from the electron data.
13. The system of claim 11 , wherein the controller is configured to correct the response function by:
extrapolating a spectral distribution of the backscattered electron data towards a lower energy, thereby yielding an extrapolated backscattered electron data; and
subtracting the extrapolated backscattered electron data from the electron data.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the controller is configured to correct the response function by:
modelling an energy distribution function of the backscattered electron data, thereby yielding a modeled energy distribution function; and
calibrating the modeled energy distribution function using one or more measurements taken using the electron beam tool.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the controller is configured to correct the response function by: determining a relative fraction of a measurement parameter and a specimen property based on of the backscattered electron data to a sum of the backscattered electron data and the electron data.
16. The system of claim 15, further comprising an electronic data storage unit configured to store the relative fraction.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the controller is configured to correct the response function Using a machine learning model, the machine learning model trained using the stored relative fraction stored on the electronic data storage unit.
18. The system of claim 10, further comprising:
an opposing electron detector configured to detect a second portion of the backscattered electrons to yield an opposing electron data; and
wherein the controller is further configured to:
compare the electron data and the opposing electron data to generate tilt data; and change an angle of the electron beam emitter using the tilt data, thereby changing a tilt of the electron beam.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, comprising one or more programs for executing the following steps on one or more computing devices:
correct a response function of an electron beam tool by:
modulating an electron beam parameter having a frequency;
instructing the electron beam tool to emit an electron beam based on the electron beam parameter towards a specimen, thereby scattering electrons, wherein the electron beam is described by a source wave function having a source phase and a landing angle; receiving, from an electron detector detecting a portion of the scattered electrons, electron data including an electron wave function having an electron phase and an electron landing angle;
determining a phase delay between the source phase and the electron phase, thereby yielding a latency, and
correcting the response function of the electron beam tool using the latency and a difference between die source wave function and the electron wave function.
20. The Bon-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the one or more programs are further configured to execute, on one or more computing devices:
training a machine-learning algorithm using the electron beam parameter, the electron data, and the response function.
</claims>
</document>
