<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q50/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HOUSECANARY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SICKLICK, JEREMY
STROUD, CHRISTOPHER
MURPHY, BRITTANY
TURNAEV, EVGENY
VILLACORTA, ALEXANDER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69888429
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE-BASED PROPERTY CONDITION DETERMINATION SYSTEMS, METHODS, AND DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented image-based property condition determination system and method are provided. The method includes determining one or more element condition ratings from individual images of the property; and determining an overall property condition based on available element condition ratings of the property. An overall condition rating of a portfolio comprising a plurality of properties is determined using the condition ratings of properties in the portfolio.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer-implemented method of determining a condition of a given property, the method comprising:
(A) determining a particular property condition rating of the given property based on one or more images of the given property, wherein the property condition rating is used to inform a valuation of the given property.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
determining one or more element condition ratings corresponding to said one or more images, wherein
said particular property condition rating is based on said one or more element condition ratings.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein said one or more element condition ratings are determined by an element condition rating mechanism that was trained on a plurality of known images with known condition ratings.
4. The method of claims 1 or 2, wherein the particular property condition rating is determined by a property condition rating mechanism that was trained on a plurality of known images with known condition ratings.
5. The method of claims 1 or 2, wherein each of said one or more images represents at least one element of the given property.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the at least one element of said given property is selected from a group comprising: a kitchen, a room, a master bedroom, a master bathroom, a bedroom, a bathroom, a living room, a house, a front of a house, a side of a house, a back of house, a basement, a yard of a house, a door, a roof, a fence, and a window.
7. The method of claims 1 or 2, wherein the particular property condition rating of the given property is time-based.
8. The method of claims 1 or 2, wherein the images used to determine the particular property condition rating were selected based on time and/or date information associated with each image.
9. The method of claims 1 or 2, further comprising:
(B) determining a second property condition rating of a second property based on the property condition rating of the given property determined in (A). 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the second property is similar to the given property.
11. The method of claims 1 or 2, wherein the particular property condition rating is a discrete value corresponding to one of a plurality of discrete property conditions.
12. The method of claims 1 or 2, wherein the particular property condition rating is a real value corresponding to a continuous range of discrete property conditions.
13. The method of claims 1 or 2, wherein the given property is a real property.
14. A computer-implemented method of determining an overall condition rating of a portfolio comprising a plurality of properties, the method comprising:
(A) determining a plurality of property condition ratings by, for each particular property in the portfolio, (A)(1) determining a particular property condition rating for said particular property based on one or more images of the particular property; and
(B) determining the overall condition rating of the portfolio as a given function of the plurality of property condition ratings determined in (A).
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the given function averages the plurality of property condition ratings to determine the overall condition rating of the portfolio.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the given function determines a weighted average of the plurality of property condition ratings to determine the overall condition rating of the portfolio.
17. The method of claims 14 or 15, wherein said determining in (A)(1) further comprises:
determining one or more element condition ratings corresponding to said one or more images of the particular property, wherein
said particular property condition rating is based on said one or more element condition ratings. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said one or more element condition ratings are determined by an element condition rating mechanism that was trained on a plurality of known images with known condition ratings.
19. The method of claims 14 or 15, wherein a particular property condition rating of at least one property in the portfolio is determined by a property condition rating mechanism that was trained on a plurality of known images with known condition ratings.
20. The method of claims 14 or 15, wherein each of said one or more images of the particular property represents at least one element of the particular property.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the at least one element of the particular property is selected from a group comprising: a kitchen, a room, a master bedroom, a master bathroom, a bedroom, a bathroom, a living room, a house, a front of a house, a side of a house, a back of house, a basement, a yard of a house, a door, a roof, a fence, and a window.
22. The method of claims 14 or 15, wherein a particular property condition rating of each particular property is time-based.
23. The method of claims 14 or 15, wherein the images used to determine the particular property condition rating of a particular property were selected based on time and/or date information associated with an image.
24. The method of claims 14 or 15, wherein the overall condition rating of the portfolio is time-based.
25. The method of claims 14 or 15, wherein the particular property condition rating of a particular property is a discrete value corresponding to one of a plurality of discrete property conditions. 26. The method of claims 14 or 15, wherein the particular property condition rating of a particular property is a real value corresponding to a continuous range of discrete property conditions.
27. The method of claims 14 or 15, wherein the overall condition rating of the portfolio is a discrete value corresponding to one of a plurality of discrete property conditions.
28. The method of claims 14 or 15, wherein the overall condition rating of the portfolio is a real value corresponding to a continuous range of discrete property conditions. 29. The method of claims 14 or 15, wherein each property in the portfolio is a real property.
30. An article of manufacture comprising non-transitory computer-readable media having computer-readable instructions stored thereon, the computer readable instructions including instructions for implementing a computer-implemented method, said method operable on a device comprising hardware including memory and at least one processor and running a service on said hardware, said method comprising the method of any one of claims 1 or 2 or 14 or 15.
31. A device, comprising:
(a) hardware including memory and at least one processor, and
(b) a service running on said hardware, wherein said service is configured to:
perform the method of one of claims 1 or 2 or 14 or 15.
</claims>
</document>
