<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01V99/00,G06F16/583,G06F16/587
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SCHLUMBERGER TECHNOLOGY
SERVICES PETROLIERS SCHLUMBERGER
SCHLUMBERGER CANADA
GEOQUEST SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRUGIER-DORRINGTON, Tracy
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73652604
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPLYING GEOTAGS TO IMAGES FOR IDENTIFYING EXPLORATION OPPORTUNITIES
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes obtaining first data representing a subterranean domain, and creating a geotag associated with a three-dimensional location of interest in the subterranean domain and a feature at the location of interest. The geotag is further associated with second data that describes the location of interest in the subterranean domain. The method also includes generating metadata describing a portion of the first data, the second data, or both, storing the geotag in a database including a plurality of geotags. The method may also include searching for an analog to the geotag.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method, comprising:
obtaining first data representing a subterranean domain;
creating a geotag associated with a three-dimensional location of interest in the subterranean domain and a feature at the location of interest, wherein the geotag is further associated with second data that describes the location of interest in the subterranean domain; generating metadata describing a portion of the first data, the second data, or both; and storing the geotag in a database comprising a plurality of geotags, wherein the metadata is stored in association with the geotag.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising searching for an analog to the geotag, wherein searching comprises:
accessing the database;
identifying one or more analogs to the feature indicated by the geotag based on a comparison of the metadata associated with the geotag to metadata associated with the plurality of geotags or a comparison of the first data, the second data, or both describing the location of interest with data describing other locations associated with the plurality of geotags; and
associating the one or more analogs with the geotag in the database.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising training an artificial intelligence to identify the one or more analogs, wherein searching for the analog comprises the artificial intelligence searching in the database to find a geotag associated with an analogue.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second data comprises at least one of a seismic image, a well log, a satellite image, gravity data, a map, or an text-based news article.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the second data is dynamic, such that the second data associated with the location of interest and the geotag is also dynamic.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the metadata comprises receiving knowledge data from a user that provides an interpretation of the first data, the second data, or both.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional location comprises two coordinates in a horizontal plane and one coordinate in a vertical plane representing a depth of the location, a geological age of the location, or both.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein searching comprises:
determining that the first data, the second data, and the metadata is insufficient for determining a likelihood of success for an operation including the location of interest; and
search for a geotag in the database associated with a location for which a likelihood of success has been determined.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
clustering the geotag into a plurality of geotags representing different locations; and grouping at least one of the plurality of geotags with another geotag representing another location.
10. A computing system, comprising:
one or more processors; and
a memory system comprising one or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by at least one of the one or more processors, cause the computing system to perform operations, the operations comprising:
obtaining first data representing a subterranean domain;
creating a geotag associated with a three-dimensional location of interest in the subterranean domain and a feature at the location of interest, wherein the geotag is further associated with second data that describes the location of interest in the subterranean domain;
generating metadata describing a portion of the first data, the second data, or both; storing the geotag in a database comprising a plurality of geotags, wherein the metadata is stored int he database in association with the geotag; and searching for an analog to the geotag, wherein searching comprises:
accessing the database;
identifying one or more analogs to the feature indicated by the geotag based on a comparison of the metadata associated with the geotag to metadata associated with the plurality of geotags or a comparison of the first data, the second data, or both describing the location of interest with data describing other locations associated with the plurality of geotags; and
associating the one or more analogs with the geotag in the database.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the second data comprises at least one of a seismic image, a well log, a satellite image, gravity data, a map, or an text-based news article.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the second data is dynamic, such that the second data associated with the location of interest and the geotag is also dynamic.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein generating the metadata comprises receiving knowledge data from a user that provides an interpretation of the first data, the second data, or both.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the three-dimensional location comprises two coordinates in a horizontal plane and one coordinate in a vertical plane representing a depth of the location, a geological age of the location, or both.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein searching comprises:
determining that the first data, the second data, and the metadata is insufficient for determining a likelihood of success for an operation including the location of interest; and
search for a geotag in the database associated with a location for which a likelihood of success has been determined.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise training an artificial intelligence to identify the one or more analogs, wherein searching for the analog comprises the artificial intelligence searching in the database to find a geotag associated with an analogue.
17. The system of claim 10, further comprising:
clustering the geotag into a plurality of geotags representing different locations; and grouping at least one of the plurality of geotags with another geotag representing another location.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform operations, the operations comprising:
obtaining first data representing a subterranean domain;
creating a geotag associated with a three-dimensional location of interest in the subterranean domain and a feature at the location of interest, wherein the geotag is further associated with second data that describes the location of interest in the subterranean domain; generating metadata describing a portion of the first data, the second data, or both;
storing the geotag in a database comprising a plurality of geotags, wherein the metadata is stored in association with the geotag in the database; and
searching for an analog to the geotag, wherein searching comprises:
accessing the database;
identifying one or more analogs to the feature indicated by the geotag based on a comparison of the metadata associated with the geotag to metadata associated with the plurality of geotags or a comparison of the data describing the location of interest with data describing other locations associated with the plurality of geotags; and
associating the one or more analogs with the geotag in the database, wherein the second data comprises at least one of a seismic image, a well log, a satellite image, gravity data, a map, or an text-based news article, and wherein the second data is dynamic, such that the second data associated with the location of interest and the geotag is also dynamic.
19. The medium of claim 18, wherein the three-dimensional location comprises two coordinates in a horizontal plane and one coordinate in a vertical plane representing a depth of the location, a geological age of the location, or both.
20. The medium of claim 18, further comprising:
clustering the geotag into a plurality of geotags representing different locations; and grouping at least one of the plurality of geotags with another geotag representing another location.
</claims>
</document>
