<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N21/234,H04N21/2347,H04N21/4408,H04N5/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
NADATHUR, ANUSH G.
FRAIOLI, NICHOLAS M.
RAUENBUEHLER, KEITH W.
SINGH, Varinder
YORK, Kenneth A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73549730
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES FOR SECURE VIDEO FRAME MANAGEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure can provide devices, methods, and computer-readable medium for secure frame management. The techniques disclosed herein provide an intelligent method for detecting triggering items in one or more frames of streaming video from an Internet Protocol camera. Upon detection, the camera transmits one or more frames of the video over a network to a computing device. Upon detecting a triggering item in a frame of the video stream, the computing device can begin a streaming session with a server and stream the one or more frames of video and accompanying metadata to the server. The frames, metadata, and associated keys can all be encrypted prior to streaming to the server. For each subsequent segment of video frames that includes the triggering item, the server can append the frames of that segment to the video clip in an encrypted container. Once the triggering item is no longer detected, the streaming session can be closed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising:
in response to detection of motion by a camera connected to a network, receiving, by a computing device, one or more frames of a video stream and accompanying metadata from the camera;
in accordance with detection of a triggering item in at least one frame of the one or more frames of the video stream:
enciypting, by the computing device, the one or more frames of the video stream and the accompanying metadata;
transmitting, to the network computing device, the one or more frames of the video stream and the accompanying metadata, the network computing device configured to store the encrypted one or more frames of the video stream and the encrypted accompanying metadata in a container;
enciypting, by the computing device, one or more subsequent frames of the video stream and subsequent metadata; and
transmitting, to the network computing device, the encrypted one or more subsequent frames of the video stream and the encrypted subsequent metadata, the network computing device configured to append the one or more encrypted subsequent frames of the video stream onto the one or more frames of the video stream and to store the encrypted subsequent metadata in the container.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising classifying, by the computing device, the one or more frames of the video stream by at least comparing one or more aspects of the one or more frames of the video stream from the camera against one or more criteria.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the classifying comprises utilizing an image recognition technique to determine a classification of the one or more frames of the video stream.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the classifying comprises a plurality of different classes including at least one of a person, an animal, and a vehicle.
5. The method any one or claims 1-4, further comprising reviewing, by the computing device, each frame of the one or more frames of the video stream for the triggering item.
6. The method of any one of claims 1-5, further comprising establishing, by the computing device, a connection with a network computing device.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising:
in accordance with detection of an absence of the triggering item in at least one subsequent frame of the one or more subsequent frames of the video stream:
terminating the connection with the network computing device.
8. The method of any one of claims 1-7, further comprising decrypting the one or more frames of the video stream from the camera.
9. The method of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the accompanying metadata identifies a start time and an end time of the one or more frames of the video stream.
10. A computing device for a network, comprising,
one or more memories; and
one or more processors in communication with the one or more memories and configured to execute instructions stored in the one or more memories to:
receiving one or more frames of a video stream and accompanying metadata from a camera;
in accordance with detection of a triggering item in at least one frame of the one or more frames of the video stream:
encrypting, by the computing device, the one or more frames of the video stream and the accompanying metadata;
transmitting, to a network computing device over a connection, the one or more frames of the video stream and the accompanying metadata, the network computing device configured to store the encrypted one or more frames of the video stream and the encrypted accompanying metadata in a container; encrypting, by the computing device, one or more subsequent frames of the video stream and subsequent metadata; and
transmitting, to the network computing device over the connection, the encrypted one or more subsequent frames of the video stream and the encrypted subsequent metadata, the network computing device configured to append the one or more encrypted subsequent frames of the video stream onto the one or more frames of the video stream and to store the encrypted subsequent metadata in the container.
11. The computer device of claim 10, wherein the container is encrypted using a symmetric encryption key.
12. The computer device of claim 11 , wherein the symmetric encryption key is a 256-bit encryption key.
13. The computer device of any one of claims 10-12, wherein the one or more frames of the video stream comprise a fragment of live video stream data from the camera.
14. The computer device of any one of claims 10-13, wherein the computing device is configured to play the one or more frames of the video stream using an HTTP-based adaptive bitrate streaming communication protocol.
15. The computer device of any one of claims 10-14, further comprising providing instructions to a second computing device to balance a load between the computing device and the second computing device.
16. The computer device of any one of claims 10-15, further comprising generating a private key for decryption.
17. A computer-readable medium storing a plurality of instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a computing device, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
receiving, by the computing device, one or more frames of a video stream and accompanying metadata from an Internet Protocol camera; reviewing, by the computing device, each frame of the one or more frames of the video stream for a triggering item;
in accordance with detection of the triggering item in at least one frame of the one or more frames of the video stream:
encrypting, by the computing device, the one or more frames of the video stream and the accompanying metadata;
transmitting, to a network computing device over a connection, the one or more frames of the video stream and the accompanying metadata, the network computing device configured to store the encrypted one or more frames of the video stream and the encrypted accompanying metadata in a storage container;
encrypting, by the computing device, one or more subsequent frames of the video stream and subsequent metadata; and
transmitting, to the network computing device over the connection, the encrypted one or more subsequent frames of the video stream and the encrypted subsequent metadata, the network computing device configured to append the one or more encrypted subsequent frames of the video stream onto the one or more frames of the video stream and to store the encrypted subsequent metadata in the storage container
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 17, further comprising performing balancing operations between one or more processors for a load of the one or more frames of the video stream being received from the Internet Protocol camera.
19. The computer-readable medium of any one of claims 17-18, wherein the balancing operations comprise reassigning operations to a second computing device based at least in part on bandwidth of the one or more processors of the computing device and network bandwidth.
20. The computer-readable medium of any one of claims 17-19, further comprising instructions assigning access control of a specific camera to a user outside a primary network.
</claims>
</document>
