<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/216,G06F40/253,G06F40/35
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
THEOBALD, Barry-John
METCALF, Katherine Elaine
WEINBERG, Garrett Laws
APOSTOLOFF, Nicholas Elia
WEBB, Russell Y
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72605865
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING RESPONSES TO USER INTERACTION DATA BASED ON USER INTERACTION-STYLES
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes obtaining word combinations associated with input modality characterization vectors and predetermined interaction-style indicator values. The method includes obtaining semantic assessments for a portion of word combinations, generating candidate interaction-style indicator values for the portion of word combinations, and responsive to a comparison between each candidate interaction-style indicator value against a predetermined interaction-style indicator value, changing an operational value of an interaction-style classifier. A method includes obtaining user interaction input values and a word combination. The method includes generating a user interaction-style indicator value, corresponding to the word combination, based on the word combination and a portion of the interaction input values. The method includes determining a semantic assessment of the word combination based on the user interaction-style indicator value and a natural language assessment, and generating a response to the user input interaction data according to the user interaction-style indicator value and the semantic assessment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising:
at an electronic device including one or more processors and a non-transitory memory: obtaining a training data corpus that includes a plurality of word combinations, wherein each of the plurality of word combinations includes one or more words, wherein each of the plurality of word combinations is associated with a corresponding input modality characterization vector and a corresponding predetermined interaction-style indicator value, and wherein the corresponding predetermined interaction-style indicator value is a function of one or more elements of the corresponding input modality characterization vector and a predetermined semantic characterization of the one or more words;
obtaining a plurality of semantic assessments corresponding to a portion of the plurality of word combinations in the training data corpus;
generating, using an interaction-style classifier, a plurality of candidate interaction-style indicator values corresponding to the portion of the plurality of word combinations in the training data corpus, wherein each of the plurality of candidate interaction-style indicator values is based on the corresponding one or more words and the corresponding input modality characterization vector, and wherein each of the plurality of candidate interaction-style indicator values is a function of at least a portion of the corresponding input modality characterization vector and the corresponding semantic assessment of the one or more words;
comparing each of the plurality of candidate interaction-style indicator values against the corresponding predetermined interaction-style indicator value; and
in response to determining that an aggregated result of the comparison between each of the plurality of candidate interaction-style indicator values against the corresponding predetermined interaction-style indicator value does not satisfy an error metric, changing an operational value of the interaction-style classifier.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least a subset of the plurality of input modality characterization vectors each includes a corresponding word choice value.
3. The method of any of claims 1 and 2, wherein at least a subset of the plurality of input modality characterization vectors each includes a corresponding speech value.
4. The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein at least a subset of the plurality of input modality characterization vectors each includes a corresponding body language value.
5. The method of any of claims 1-4, wherein at least a subset of the plurality of input modality characterization vectors each includes a corresponding situational context value.
6. The method of any of claims 1-5, wherein the interactionstyle classifier includes a speech analyzer that generates a plurality of speech candidate interaction-style indicator values corresponding to the portion of the plurality of word combinations in the training data corpus, wherein each of the plurality of speech candidate interaction-style indicator values is a function of a speech component of the corresponding input modality characterization vector and the corresponding semantic assessment of the one or more words.
7. The method of any of claims 1-6, wherein the interaction-style classifier includes a word choice analyzer that generates a plurality of word choice candidate interaction-style indicator values corresponding to the portion of the plurality of word combinations in the training data corpus, wherein each of the plurality of word choice candidate interaction-style indicator values is a function of a word choice component of the corresponding input modality characterization vector and the corresponding semantic assessment of the one or more words.
8. The method of any of claims 1-7, wherein the interaction-style classifier includes a situational context analyzer that generates a plurality of situational context candidate interaction-style indicator values corresponding to the portion of the plurality of word combinations in the training data corpus, wherein each of the plurality of situational context candidate interaction-style indicator values is a function of a situational context component of the corresponding input modality characterization vector and the corresponding semantic assessment of the one or more words.
9. The method of any of claims 1-8, wherein the interaction-style classifier includes a body language analyzer that generates a plurality of body language candidate interaction-style indicator values corresponding to the portion of the plurality of word combinations in the training data corpus, wherein each of the plurality of body language candidate interaction-style indicator values is a function of a body language component of the corresponding input modality characterization vector and the corresponding semantic assessment of the one or more words.
10. The method of any of claims 1-9, wherein the interaction-style classifier includes a text analyzer that generates a plurality of text candidate interaction-style indicator values corresponding to the portion of the plurality of word combinations in the training data corpus, wherein each of the plurality of text candidate interaction-style indicator values is a function of a text component of the corresponding input modality characterization vector and the corresponding semantic assessment of the one or more words.
11. The method of any of claims 1-10, wherein the interaction-style classifier includes an ensemble interaction-style analyzer that generates a plurality of ensemble candidate interaction-style indicator values corresponding to the portion of the plurality of word combinations in the training data corpus, wherein each of the plurality of ensemble candidate interaction-style indicator values is based on two or more of: a corresponding speech candidate interaction-style indicator value, a corresponding word choice candidate interaction-style indicator value, a corresponding situational context candidate interactionstyle indicator value, a corresponding body language candidate interaction-style indicator value, and a corresponding text candidate interaction-style indicator value.
12. The method of any of claims 1-11, wherein the plurality of semantic assessments is obtained from a semantic text analyzer.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the semantic text analyzer includes a natural language processor (NLP) that generates the plurality of semantic assessments.
14. An electronic device, comprising:
one or more processors;
a non-transitory memory; and
one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the nontransitory memory and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including instructions for performing or causing performance of any of the methods of claims 1-13.
15. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, which, when executed by an electronic device, cause the electronic device to perform or cause performance of any of the methods of claims 1-13.
16. An electronic device, comprising:
one or more processors;
non-transitory memory; and
means for performing or causing performance of any of the methods of claims 1-13.
17. An information processing apparatus for use in an electronic device, comprising: means for performing or causing performance of any of the methods of claims 1-13.
18. A method compri sing :
at an electronic device including one or more processors, one or more input devices, and a non-transitory memory:
obtaining user input interaction data, via the one or more input devices, wherein the user input interaction data includes one or more user interaction input values respectively obtained from the corresponding one or more input devices, wherein the user input interaction data includes a word combination;
generating, by an interaction-style classifier, a user interaction-style indicator value corresponding to the word combination in the user input interaction data, wherein the user interaction-style indicator value is a function of the word combination and a portion of the one or more user interaction input values;
determining, using a semantic text analyzer, a semantic assessment of the word combination in the user input interaction data based on the user interaction-style indicator value and a natural language assessment of the word combination; and
generating a response to the user input interaction data according to the user interaction-style indicator value and the semantic assessment of the word combination.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising, obtaining, from a prediction engine, a predicted user interaction-style indicator value;
wherein generating the response to the user input interaction data is based at least in part on the predicted user interaction-style indicator value.
20. The method of any of claims 18 and 19, further comprising:
obtaining, from a user reaction engine, a user reaction indicator value indicative of a reaction to the response; and generating a subsequent response to subsequent user input interaction data based at least in part on the user reaction indicator value.
21. The method of any of claims 18-20, wherein the semantic text analyzer includes a natural language processor (NLP) that generates the natural language assessment of the word combination.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the NLP generates a plurality of candidate natural language assessments included in the natural language assessment of the word combination, wherein each of the plurality of candidate natural language assessments corresponds to a respective interpretation of the word combination, and wherein the respective interpretations of the word combination are different from each other.
23. The method of any of claims 18-22, wherein the response to the user input interaction data is characterized by a response interaction-style indicator value, wherein a difference between the response interaction-style indicator value and the user interactionstyle indicator value satisfies a mirroring threshold.
24. The method of any of claims 18-22, wherein the response to the user input interaction data is characterized by a response interaction-style indicator value, wherein a difference between the response interaction-style indicator value and the user interactionstyle indicator value satisfies a difference threshold.
25. The method of any of claims 18-24, wherein the user interactionstyle indicator value is a function of a plurality of constituent user interactionstyle indicator values, including two or more of: a speech interaction-style indicator value, a body language interaction-style indicator value, a word choice interaction-style indicator value, a text interaction-style indicator value, and a situational context interaction-style indicator value.
26. The method of claim 25, further comprising setting a plurality of rankings corresponding to the plurality of constituent user interaction-style indicator values;
wherein the response to the user input interaction data is based at least in part on the plurality of rankings.
27. An electronic device, comprising:
one or more processors; one or more input devices;
a non-transitory memory; and
one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the nontransitory memory and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including instructions for performing or causing performance of any of the methods of claims 18-26.
28. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, which, when executed by an electronic device, cause the electronic device to perform or cause performance of any of the methods of claims 18-26.
29. An electronic device, comprising:
one or more processors;
one or more input devices;
non-transitory memory; and
means for performing or causing performance of any of the methods of claims 18-26.
30. An information processing apparatus for use in an electronic device, comprising: means for performing or causing performance of any of the methods of claims 18-26.
</claims>
</document>
