<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COUPANG CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KANG, YOUNG SHIN
LEE, YUL HEE
WEI, Han
LI, Yanchao
WU, Xiaofeng
LEE, Meng Chai
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72424851
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTERIZED SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR IMPROVED MOBILE WORKER TRACKING
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for computerized time tracking are disclosed. In one aspect, a computer-implemented device is disclosed. The device comprises a memory storing instructions, a network device, a display device, and at least one processor configured to execute the instructions. The instructions direct the processor to determine a location of the device based on one or more network signals; based on the determined location, display a first user interface element that, when selected, records a start time associated with a user identifier; receive a selection of the first user interface element; after receiving a selection of the first user interface element, display a second user interface element that, when selected, records an end time associated with the user identifier; receive a selection of the second user interface element; and send at least one of the start time or the end time to a remote server via the network device.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented device for tracking a user's time, the device comprising: a memory storing instructions;
a network device;
a display device; and
at least one processor configured to execute the instructions to:
determine a location of the device based on one or more network signals from the network device;
based on the determined location, display, on the display device, a first user interface element that, when selected, records a start time associated with a user identifier;
receive, from the display device, a selection of the first user interface element; after receiving a selection of the first user interface element, display, on the display device, a second user interface element that, when selected, records an end time associated with the user identifier;
receive, from the display device, a selection of the second user interface
element; and
send at least one of the start time or the end time to a remote server via the network device.
2. The device of claim 1 , wherein displaying the first user interface element is based on determining that the current time is within an accepted time.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the accepted time is based on at least one of a vacation schedule, a shift schedule, or a needed capacity.
4. The device of claim 1 , wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to:
receive, from a remote server, an amount of time worked by the user during a first time frame;
determine whether the amount of time worked is greater than a maximum amount of time for the first time frame; and
based on the determination, prevent the display of the first user interface element.
5. The device of claim 4, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to display a warning when the amount of time worked within the first time frame exceeds a threshold amount of time that is smaller than the maximum amount of time.
6. The device of claim 4 wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to display a warning when the amount of time worked within the first time frame exceeds the maximum amount of time within the first time frame.
7. The device of claim 4, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to record the end time associated with the user identifier based on determining that the amount of time worked within the time frame exceeds the maximum amount of time within the time frame.
8. The device of claim 4, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to:
send, via the network device, a query to the remote server to determine activity associated with the user identifier;
receive, via the network device, activity information from the remote server; and based on the activity information, record the end time associated with the user identifier.
9. The device of claim 6, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to
responsive to the selection of the first user interface element, send a token to the remote server;
send, via the network device, a query to the remote server to determine
whether the token has been used within a second time frame;
receive, via the network device, activity information from the remote server indicating whether the token has been used within the second time frame; and
based on the activity information, record the end time associated with the user identifier.
10. The device of claim 8, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to send, via the network device, a query to the remote server when the number of hours worked within a time frame exceeds a threshold number of hours that is smaller than the maximum number of hours.
1 1 .The device of claim 1 , wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to record the end time associated with the user identifier based on a determination that the device is outside of an accepted location.
12. The device of claim 1 , wherein the location is determined based on a proximity of a wireless network.
13. The device of claim 1 , wherein the device sends the data collected to the central system based on scheduled updates or in real time.
14. The device of claim 1 , wherein the first user interface element includes an input field for information regarding the user's job during the logged in time.
15. The device of claim 1 , wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to:
display, on the display device, at least one category of job role;
receive, on the display device, an input selecting at least one of the categories of job roles;
display, on the display device, at least one question based on the category of job role selected; and
receive, on the display device, at least one answer to the at least one
question.
16. A method for tracking a user's time, comprising the steps of:
determining a location of a computer-implemented device based on one or more network signals from a network device of the device;
displaying on a display device of the computer-implemented device, based on the determined location, a first user interface element that, when selected, records a start time associated with a user identifier in a memory device of the computer implemented device;
receiving, from the display device, a selection of the first user interface
element;
displaying, after receiving a selection of the first user interface element on the display device, a second user interface element that, when selected, records an end time associated with a user identifier in the memory device of the computer implemented device; receiving, from the display device, a selection of the second user interface element; and
sending at least one of the start time or the end time to a remote server via the network device.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein displaying the first user interface element is based on determining that the current time is within an accepted time.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising the steps of:
receiving, from a remote server, an amount of time worked by the user during a first time frame;
determining whether the amount of time worked is greater than a maximum amount of time for the first time frame; and
based on the determination, preventing the display of the first user interface element.
19. The method of claim 18 further comprising the step of displaying a warning when the amount of time worked within the first time frame exceeds the maximum amount of time within the first time frame.
20. A system for tracking a user's time comprising a mobile device and a central server:
the mobile device comprising:
a network device;
a display device;
at least one processor and at least one memory storing instructions, the at least one processor configured to execute instructions to:
determine a location of the device based on one or more network signals from the network device; based on the determined location, display, on the display device, a first user interface element that, when selected on the display device, records a time associated with a start time for a user;
receive, from the display device, a selection of the first user interface
element;
send data contained within the start input to a central server after receiving the input selecting the first user interface element;
receive analytical data from the central server about the user;
after receiving a selection of the first user interface element, display on the display device, a second user interface element that, when selected on the display device, records a time associated with an end time for the user;
receive, from the display device, a selection of the second user interface element;
send data contained within the end input to the central server after
receiving the input selecting the second user interface element; and the central server comprising:
a network device;
a database; and
at least one processor and at least one memory storing instructions, the at least one processor configured to execute instructions to:
receive, via the network device, time data including at least one of a start time or an end time;
store the received time data in the database in association with a user identifier; receive a request from the mobile device for at least one of past start time or past end time information; and
send at least one of the past start time or end time information to the mobile device.
</claims>
</document>
