<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HEALTHPOINTE SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GNANASAMBANDAM, NATHAN
ANDERSON, MARK HENRY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73289701
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR USING A BLOCKCHAIN TO MANAGE MEDICAL TRANSACTIONS BETWEEN ENTITIES IN A HEALTHCARE ECOSYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A method for performing a medical transaction using a hyperledger, the method including receiving, from a computing device associated with a medical personnel entity, a request to perform the medical transaction between the medical personnel entity and a patient entity, where the medical personnel entity is associated with a medical personnel node and the patient entity is associated with a patient node, and a respective copy of the hyperledger is maintained at both the medical personnel node and the patient node. The method includes identifying a transaction in the hyperledger that stores an authorizing credential of the medical personnel entity, determining whether to allow the medical transaction to be performed based on at least the authorizing credential of the medical personnel entity, and responsive to determining to allow the medical transaction to be performed, updating the respective copy of the hyperledger with the medical transaction.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for maintaining a hyperledger for medical transactions at one or more nodes, comprising:
receiving, from a computing device, a request to perform a transaction using the hyperledger, wherein the transaction pertains to registering a medical personnel entity associated with the computing device as a node of the one or more nodes, and the request comprises an authorizing credential pertaining to the medical personnel entity; determining, based one or more rules, whether to allow the transaction to be performed in view of the request;
responsive to determining to allow the transaction to be performed, registering the node for the medical personnel entity by:
associating the medical personnel entity with the node;
updating the hyperledger by adding a block to the hyperledger, wherein the block stores the transaction including the authorizing credential pertaining to the medical personnel entity; and
storing the hyperledger at the node for the medical personnel entity.
2. The method of claim 1 , further comprising:
receiving, from a second computing device, a second request to perform a second transaction using the hyperledger, wherein the second transaction pertains to registering a patient entity associated with the second computing device as a second node of the one or more nodes, and the request comprises personal information pertaining to the patient entity;
determining, based on the one or more rules, whether to allow the second transaction to be performed in view of the second request;
responsive to determining to allow the second transaction to be performed, registering the second node for the patient entity by:
associating the patient entity with the second node; updating the hyperledger by adding a second block to the hyperledger, wherein the second block stores the second transaction including the personal information pertaining to the patient entity; and
storing the hyperledger at the second node for the patient entity.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein determining, based on the one or more rules, whether to allow the transaction to be performed in view of the request further comprises: transmitting a request to a computing device of a professional association or a government agency associated with the authorizing credential to validate the authorizing credential.
4. The method of claim 1 , wherein the authorizing credential is a National Provider Identifier (NPI).
5. The method of claim 1 , wherein the one or more nodes represent a plurality of entities in a healthcare ecosystem, wherein the plurality of entities comprise one or more medical personnel, patients, medical facilities, insurance providers, professional associations, and government agencies.
6. The method of claim 1 , further comprising:
receiving, from the computing device associated with the medical personnel entity, a request to perform a medical transaction between the medical personnel entity and a patient entity, wherein the patient entity is associated with a patient node, and a copy of the hyperledger is stored at the patient node;
identifying the block in the hyperledger storing the transaction that includes the authorizing credential pertaining to the medical personnel entity;
determining whether to allow the medical transaction to be performed based on at least the authorizing credential of the medical personnel entity; and
responsive to determining to allow the medical transaction to be performed, updating the hyperledger with the medical transaction.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the medical transaction comprises:
the medical personnel entity creating or updating a prescription for the patient entity; or
the medical personnel entity filling or refilling the prescription for the patient entity.
8. A method for performing a medical transaction using a hyperledger, the method comprising:
receiving, from a computing device associated with a medical personnel entity, a request to perform the medical transaction between the medical personnel entity and a patient entity, wherein the medical personnel entity is associated with a medical personnel node and the patient entity is associated with a patient node, and a respective copy of the hyperledger is maintained at both the medical personnel node and the patient node; identifying a transaction in the hyperledger that stores an authorizing credential of the medical personnel entity;
determining whether to allow the medical transaction to be performed based on at least the authorizing credential of the medical personnel entity; and
responsive to determining to allow the medical transaction to be performed, updating the respective copy of the hyperledger with the medical transaction at the medical personnel node and the patient node.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein determining whether to allow the medical transaction to be performed based on at least the authorizing credential of the medical personnel entity further comprises determining whether the authorizing credential is valid.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the medical transaction comprises the medical personnel entity creating or updating a prescription for the patient entity.
1 1 . The method of claim 8, further comprising:
determining that the authorizing credential of the medical personnel entity is expired or is about to expire; transmitting, based on one or more rules, a notification to the computing device associated with the medical personnel entity that instructs the medical personnel entity to renew the authorizing credential.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising:
identifying another transaction in the hyperledger that stores information pertaining to the patient entity;
determining whether to allow the medical transaction to be performed based on at least the authorizing credential of the medical personnel entity and the information pertaining to the patient entity; and
responsive to determining to allow the medical transaction to be performed, updating the respective copy of the hyperledger with the medical transaction at the medical personnel node and the patient node.
13. A method for performing a medical transaction using a hyperledger, the method comprising:
identifying, by a patient computing device, a medical facility computing device that is within a threshold distance of a geolocation of the patient computing device, wherein the medical facility computing device is associated with a medical facility entity and the patient computing device is associated with a patient entity;
transmitting, from the patient computing device, a request to perform a medical transaction to the medical facility computing device, wherein the request comprises an authenticating credential associated with the patient entity, and a determination is made whether to allow performance of the medical transaction based on one or more rules that specify allowing the medical transaction to be added to a hyperledger when at least the authenticating credential in the hyperledger is verified; and
receiving a notification from the medical facility computing device that indicates the medical transaction has been performed.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the medical transaction comprises filling or refilling a prescription for the patient entity.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the one or more rules further specify allowing the medical transaction to be added to the hyperledger when at least an authorizing credential of a medical personnel entity in the hyperledger is verified, wherein the medical personnel entity comprises a pharmacist or a physician that wrote the prescription.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the one or more rules further specify notifying the medical personnel entity to update the authorizing credential in the hyperledger at set intervals of time.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the one or more rules further specify allowing the medical transaction to be added to the hyperledger when at least an authorizing credential of the medical facility entity in the hyperledger is verified, wherein the medical facility entity comprises a pharmacy.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein the one or more rules further specify allowing the medical transaction to be added to the hyperledger when the prescription for the patient entity is identified at another medical transaction in the hyperledger.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the one or more rules further specify allowing the medical transaction to be added to the hyperledger when there is at least one remaining refill for the prescription identified at the another medical transaction in the hyperledger.
20. The method of claim 13, wherein the hyperledger comprises a plurality of blocks storing transactions between any combination of a plurality of entities in a healthcare ecosystem, wherein the plurality of entities comprise one or more medical personnel, patients, medical facilities, insurance providers, professional associations, and government agencies.
</claims>
</document>
