<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04W12/00,H04W12/08,H04W12/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
THAI, Hien
BEUMER, Hidde
NAIR, Pramod
TENG, Andrew
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71950700
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LOCATION-BASED IDENTIFICATION OF POTENTIAL SECURITY THREAT
</title>

<abstract>
In one example, a firewall obtains a first network packet that indicates a first mobile country code of a mobile subscriber at a first time and a first mobile network code of the mobile subscriber at the first time. The firewall obtains a second network packet that indicates a second mobile country code of the mobile subscriber at a second time and a second mobile network code of the mobile subscriber at the second time. The firewall determines whether the first mobile country code is different from the second mobile country code or the first mobile network code is different from the second mobile network code. If so, the firewall determines whether a difference between the second time and the first time is less than a threshold difference. If so, the firewall associates the second network packet with a potential security threat.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising:
obtaining a first network packet that indicates a first mobile country code of a mobile subscriber at a first time and a first mobile network code of the mobile subscriber at the first time;
obtaining a second network packet that indicates a second mobile country code of the mobile subscriber at a second time and a second mobile network code of the mobile subscriber at the second time;
determining whether the first mobile country code is different from the second mobile country code or the first mobile network code is different from the second mobile network code;
if it is determined that the first mobile country code is different from the second mobile country code or the first mobile network code is different from the second mobile network code, determining whether a difference between the second time and the first time is less than a threshold difference; and
if it is determined that the difference between the second time and the first time is less than the threshold difference, associating the second network packet with a potential security threat.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first network packet further indicates a first cell identifier of the mobile subscriber at the first time, and the second network packet further indicates a second cell identifier of the mobile subscriber at the second time, the method further comprising:
determining whether the first cell identifier is different from the second cell identifier; and
if it is determined that the first cell identifier is different from the second cell identifier, determining whether the difference between the second time and the first time is less than the threshold difference.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, further comprising:
extracting the first mobile country code and the first mobile network code from a first information element of the first network packet; and
extracting the second mobile country code and the second mobile network code from a second information element of the second network packet.
4. The method of any of claims 1 to 3, further comprising:
storing the first mobile country code and the first mobile network code in a database; and
before determining whether the first mobile country code is different from the second mobile country code or the first mobile network code is different from the second mobile network code, retrieving the first mobile country code and the first mobile network code from the database.
5. The method of any of claims 1 to 4, further comprising:
issuing an event log indicating that the second network packet is associated with the potential security threat.
6. The method of any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the second network packet belongs to a network session, the method further comprising:
dropping, blocking, or redirecting the second network packet and any subsequent network packets that belong to the network session.
7. The method of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein:
obtaining the first network packet includes obtaining the first network packet via a general packet radio service tunneling protocol; and
obtaining the second network packet includes obtaining the second network packet via the general packet radio service tunneling protocol.
8. An apparatus comprising:
a network interface configured to obtain and/or provide network packets; and one or more processors coupled to the network interface, wherein the one or more processors are configured to:
obtain a first network packet that indicates a first mobile country code of a mobile subscriber at a first time and a first mobile network code of the mobile subscriber at the first time;
obtain a second network packet that indicates a second mobile country code of the mobile subscriber at a second time and a second mobile network code of the mobile subscriber at the second time;
determine whether the first mobile country code is different from the second mobile country code or the first mobile network code is different from the second mobile network code;
if it is determined that the first mobile country code is different from the second mobile country code or the first mobile network code is different from the second mobile network code, determine whether a difference between the second time and the first time is less than a threshold difference; and
if it is determined that the difference between the second time and the first time is less than the threshold difference, associate the second network packet with a potential security threat.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the first network packet further indicates a first cell identifier of the mobile subscriber at the first time, and the second network packet further indicates a second cell identifier of the mobile subscriber at the second time, and wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
determine whether the first cell identifier is different from the second cell identifier; and
if it is determined that the first cell identifier is different from the second cell identifier, determine whether the difference between the second time and the first time is less than the threshold difference.
10. The apparatus of claim 8 or 9, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
extract the first mobile country code and the first mobile network code from a first information element of the first network packet; and
extract the second mobile country code and the second mobile network code from a second information element of the second network packet.
11. The apparatus of any of claims 8 to 10, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
store the first mobile country code and the first mobile network code in a database; and before determining whether the first mobile country code is different from the second mobile country code or the first mobile network code is different from the second mobile network code, retrieve the first mobile country code and the first mobile network code from the database.
12. The apparatus of any of claims 8 to 11, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
issue an event log indicating that the second network packet is associated with the potential security threat.
13. The apparatus of any of claims 8 to 12, wherein the second network packet belongs to a network session, and wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
drop, block, or redirect the second network packet and any subsequent network packets that belong to the network session.
14. The apparatus of any of claims 8 to 13, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
obtain the first network packet via a general packet radio service tunneling protocol; and
obtain the second network packet via the general packet radio service tunneling protocol.
15. One or more non-transitory computer readable storage media encoded with instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to:
obtain a first network packet that indicates a first mobile country code of a mobile subscriber at a first time and a first mobile network code of the mobile subscriber at the first time;
obtain a second network packet that indicates a second mobile country code of the mobile subscriber at a second time and a second mobile network code of the mobile subscriber at the second time;
determine whether the first mobile country code is different from the second mobile country code or the first mobile network code is different from the second mobile network code;
if it is determined that the first mobile country code is different from the second mobile country code or the first mobile network code is different from the second mobile network code, determine whether a difference between the second time and the first time is less than a threshold difference; and
if it is determined that the difference between the second time and the first time is less than the threshold difference, associate the second network packet with a potential security threat.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 15, wherein the first network packet further indicates a first cell identifier of the mobile subscriber at the first time, and the second network packet further indicates a second cell identifier of the mobile subscriber at the second time, and wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: determine whether the first cell identifier is different from the second cell identifier; and
if it is determined that the first cell identifier is different from the second cell identifier, determine whether the difference between the second time and the first time is less than the threshold difference.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 15 or 16, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to:
extract the first mobile country code and the first mobile network code from a first information element of the first network packet; and
extract the second mobile country code and the second mobile network code from a second information element of the second network packet.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer readable storage media of any of claims 15 to 17, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to:
store the first mobile country code and the first mobile network code in a database; and before determining whether the first mobile country code is different from the second mobile country code or the first mobile network code is different from the second mobile network code, retrieve the first mobile country code and the first mobile network code from the database.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer readable storage media of any of claims 15 to 18, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to:
issue an event log indicating that the second network packet is associated with the potential security threat; or
drop, block, or redirect the second network packet and any subsequent network packets that belong to a network session to which the second network packet belongs.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer readable storage media of any of claims 15 to 19, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to:
obtain the first network packet via a general packet radio service tunneling protocol; and
obtain the second network packet via the general packet radio service tunneling protocol.
21. Apparatus comprising:
means for obtaining a first network packet that indicates a first mobile country code of a mobile subscriber at a first time and a first mobile network code of the mobile subscriber at the first time;
means for obtaining a second network packet that indicates a second mobile country code of the mobile subscriber at a second time and a second mobile network code of the mobile subscriber at the second time;
means for determining whether the first mobile country code is different from the second mobile country code or the first mobile network code is different from the second mobile network code;
means for determining whether a difference between the second time and the first time is less than a threshold difference, if it is determined that the first mobile country code is different from the second mobile country code or the first mobile network code is different from the second mobile network code; and
means for associating the second network packet with a potential security threat, if it is determined that the difference between the second time and the first time is less than the threshold difference.
22. The apparatus according to claim 21 further comprising means for implementing the method according to any of claims 2 to 7.
23. A computer program, computer program product or computer readable medium comprising instructions which, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to carry out the steps of the method of any of claims 1 to 7.
</claims>
</document>
