<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H03K3/012
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GROQ
</assignee>

<inventors>
HONNAVARA-PRASAD, SUSHMA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67841229
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REDUCING POWER CONSUMPTION IN A PROCESSOR CIRCUIT
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure pertain to reducing power consumption in a processor circuit. In one embodiment, a processor circuit comprises a plurality of data storage modules. The plurality of data storage modules each include one or more first multibit flip flop circuits having a first power consumption per bit and one or more second flip flop circuits having a second power consumption per bit. The first multibit flip flop circuits may have more bits than the second flip flop circuits. Additionally, the first power consumption per bit may be less than the second power consumption per bit such that power consumption is reduced when the first multibit flip flop circuits are used to store bits that change with a higher frequency than bits stored in the second flip flop circuits.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A processor circuit comprising:
a plurality of data storage modules, the plurality of data storage modules each comprising:
one or more first multibit flip flop circuits having a first power consumption per bit; and
one or more second flip flop circuits having a second power consumption per bit;
wherein the first multibit flip flop circuits have more bits than the second flip flop circuits,
wherein the first power consumption per bit is less than the second power consumption per bit, and
wherein the first multibit flip flop circuits are used to store bits that change with a higher frequency than bits stored in the second flip flop circuits.
2. The processor of claim 1 wherein the second flip flop circuits are second multibit flip flop circuits, wherein the data storage modules further comprise a plurality of single bit flip flop circuits having a third power consumption per bit, wherein the second power consumption per bit is less than the third power consumption per bit, and wherein the second multibit flip flop circuits are used to store bits that change with a higher frequency than bits stored in the plurality of single bit flip flop circuits.
3. The processor of claim 2 wherein the data storage modules are multipurpose modules for storing two eight-bit operands or one sixteen-bit operand, wherein the first multibit flip flop circuits comprise four four-bit multibit flip flop circuits for storing either the two eight-bit operands or one sixteen-bit operand, and wherein each data storage module comprises at least one single bit flip flop circuit of said plurality of single bit flip flop circuits for storing one of a first zero indicator bit or a second zero indicator bit.
4. The processor of claim 3 wherein:
the first zero indicator bit corresponds to a first eight-bit operand and the second zero indicator bit corresponds to a second eight-bit operand when the data storage modules stores two eight-bit operands; the first zero indicator bit corresponds to the sixteen-bit operand when the data storage modules stores a sixteen-bit operand, and the second zero indicator bit is unused; and
each zero indicator bit has a first state when the corresponding operand is all zero values, and each zero indicator bit has a second state when the corresponding operand has at least one nonzero value.
5. The processor of claim 1 wherein first bits in one or more of the second flip flop circuits are in a critical processing path of an arithmetic operation circuit.
6. The processor of claim 1 wherein the processor is a machine learning processor.
7. The processor of claim 6 wherein the machine learning processor comprises one or more matrix multiplication units, and wherein the one or more matrix multiplication units comprise a plurality of said data storage modules.
8. The processor of claim 6 wherein the machine learning processor comprises one or more vector multiplication units, and wherein the one or more vector multiplication units comprise a plurality of said data storage modules.
9. A processor comprising:
a plurality of data storage modules, the plurality of data storage modules each comprising:
first means for storing a plurality of bits, the first means having a first power consumption per bit; and
second means for storing one or more bits, the second means having a second power consumption per bit;
wherein the first power consumption per bit is less than the second power consumption per bit, and
wherein the first means stores bits that change with a higher frequency than bits stored in the second means.
10. The processor of claim 9 wherein the first means is a plurality of first multibit flip flop circuits for storing operands and the second means is one or more second multibit flip flop circuits or single bit flip flop circuits for storing zero indicator bits.
11. A method of processing data comprising: storing data in a plurality of data storage modules on a processor, wherein storing data in each of the plurality of data storage modules comprising:
storing data in one or more first multibit flip flop circuits having a first power consumption per bit; and
storing data in one or more second flip flop circuits having a second power consumption per bit;
wherein the first multibit flip flop circuits store more bits than the second flip flop circuits,
wherein the first power consumption per bit is less than the second power consumption per bit, and
wherein the first multibit flip flop circuits are used to store bits that change with a higher frequency than bits stored in the second flip flop circuits.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein the processor is a machine learning processor comprising one or more of a matrix multiplication unit or vector multiplication unit, and wherein the matrix multiplication unit or vector multiplication unit comprise a plurality of said data storage modules.
13. The method of claim 11 wherein the second flip flop circuits are second multibit flip flop circuits, wherein method further comprises storing data in a plurality of single bit flip flop circuits having a third power consumption per bit, wherein the second power consumption per bit is less than the third power consumption per bit, and wherein the second multibit flip flop circuits are used to store bits that change with a higher frequency than bits stored in the plurality of single bit flip flop circuits.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein the data storage modules are multipurpose modules for storing two eight-bit operands or one sixteen-bit operand, wherein the first multibit flip flop circuits comprise four four-bit multibit flip flop circuits for storing either the two eight-bit operands or one sixteen-bit operand, and wherein each data storage module comprises at least one single bit flip flop circuit of said plurality of single bit flip flop circuits for storing one of a first zero indicator bit or a second zero indicator bit.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein:
the first zero indicator bit corresponds to a first eight-bit operand and the second zero indicator bit corresponds to a second eight-bit operand when the data storage modules stores two eight-bit operands; the first zero indicator bit corresponds to the sixteen-bit operand when the data storage modules stores a sixteen-bit operand, and the second zero indicator bit is unused; and
each zero indicator bit has a first state when the corresponding operand is all zero values, and each zero indicator bit has a second state when the corresponding operand has at least one nonzero value.
16. The method of claim 11 wherein first bits in one or more of the second flip flop circuits are in a critical processing path of an arithmetic operation circuit.
</claims>
</document>
