<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W4/021,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PAG FINANCIAL INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
AGARWAL, PAVAN
RIVERA, JONATHAN
SANCHEZ, GABRIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68392191
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CRITERIA-BASED LOCATION TRACKING AND NOTIFICATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for providing criteria-based location notifications to parents based on a geolocation of a child. Geolocation information may be transmitted from a child's mobile device. Geolocation information may include a geolocation of a child user and may be processed in accordance with user-selected parameters specifying a set of undesirable geolocations provided by the parent user. The determination that the child user's geolocation satisfies child user's parameters may trigger a notification transmitted to the parent user. Determination of a likelihood of incident occurrence for a child user at a geolocation may be made in accordance with a threshold parameter provided by the parent user. The determination may be performed by analyzing geolocation information, user information provided by the parent user, and additional information obtained by the system. An incident indicator generated during the determination may quantify a likelihood of an occurrence of a negative event at the geolocation.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for triggering events in a client application, the method comprising:
obtaining event information defining event requirements for triggering an event within an interactive client application hosted over a network, the event information specifying location criteria including an incident occurrence threshold; obtaining geolocation information, the geolocation information indicating a geolocation of a first user;
obtaining demographic characteristics;
obtaining additional information related to the geolocation;
determining a likelihood of incident occurrence for the geolocation and the first user based upon the additional information;
comparing the likelihood of incident occurrence at the geolocation of the first user with the location criteria for the event to determine whether the likelihood of incident occurrence determined for the first user satisfies the location criteria by being within the threshold of the incident occurrence threshold defined by the location criteria; and
responsive to the geolocation of the first user as specified by the geolocation information of the location requirements satisfying the location criteria, triggering the event for a second user in the client application;
wherein obtaining the event information for the event triggered for the second user includes obtaining the event information that defines the location criteria via a graphical user interface configured to receive entry or selection of the event information from the second user that is different from the first user.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein responsive to the geolocation of the first user as specified by the geolocation information of the location requirements satisfying the location criteria, triggering the event for the first user in the client application.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein the event triggered for the second user comprises a notification.
4. The method of claim 1 , wherein determination of the likelihood of incident occurrence is calculated using Bayesian statistics.
5. The method of claim 1 , further comprising obtaining behavioral information of the first user for the geolocation.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the behavioral information of the first user for the geolocation is provided by the second user.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the determination of the likelihood of incident occurrence for the geolocation and the user is further configured to be based upon the behavioral information.
8. The method of claim 1 , wherein the additional information comprises historical incident information for incidents that have previously occurred at or near the geolocation.
9. The method of claim 1 , wherein the additional information
comprises historical incident information for incidents that have previously occurred at or near the geolocation.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the determination of the likelihood of incident occurrence for the geolocation and the user is further configured to be based upon the historical incident information.
11. A system for triggering events in a client application, the system comprising:
one or more physical processors configured by machine-readable instructions to:
obtain event information defining event requirements for triggering an event within an interactive client application hosted over a network, the event information specifying location criteria including an incident occurrence threshold;
obtain geolocation information, the geolocation information indicating a geolocation of a first user;
obtain demographic characteristics;
obtain additional information related to the geolocation; determine a likelihood of incident occurrence for the geolocation and the first user based upon the additional information;
compare the likelihood of incident occurrence at the geolocation of the first user with the location criteria for the event to determine whether the likelihood of incident occurrence determined for the first user satisfies the location criteria by being within the threshold of the incident occurrence threshold defined by the location criteria;
responsive to the geolocation of the first user as specified by the geolocation information of the location requirements satisfying the location criteria, triggering the event for a second user in the client application;
wherein obtaining the event information for the event triggered for the second user includes obtaining the event information that defines the location criteria via a graphical user interface configured to receive entry or selection of the event information from the second user that is different from the first user.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein responsive to the geolocation of the first user as specified by the geolocation information of the location requirements satisfying the location criteria, triggering the event for the first user in the client application.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the event triggered for the second user comprises a notification.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein determination of the likelihood of incident occurrence is calculated using Bayesian statistics.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured to obtain a query time at which the first user is or will be present at the geolocation and wherein the determination of the likelihood of incident occurrence for the geolocation is further configured to be based upon the query time.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured to obtain behavioral information of the first user for the geolocation.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein, the behavioral information of the first user for the geolocation is provided by the second user.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the determination of the likelihood of incident occurrence for the geolocation and the user is further configured to be based upon the behavioral information.
19. The system of claim 10 wherein the additional information comprises historical incident information for incidents that have previously occurred at or near the geolocation.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the determination of the likelihood of incident occurrence for the geolocation and the user is further configured to be based upon the historical incident information. AMENDED CLAIMS
received by the International Bureau on 24 December 2019 (24.12.2019)
1. A method for triggering events in a client application, the method comprising:
obtaining event information defining event requirements for triggering an event within an interactive client application hosted over a network, the event information specifying location criteria including an incident occurrence threshold;
obtaining geolocation information, the geolocation information indicating a geolocation of a first user;
obtaining demographic characteristics of the first user;
obtaining incident information related to the geolocation of the first user;
determining a likelihood of incident occurrence for the geolocation and the first user based on the demographic characteristics of the first user and the incident information related to the geolocation of the first user;
comparing the likelihood of incident occurrence for the geolocation and the first user with the location criteria to determine whether the likelihood of incident occurrence determined for the geolocation and the first user satisfies the location criteria by being within the incident occurrence threshold specified by the location criteria; and
responsive to the geolocation of the first user satisfying the location criteria, triggering the event in the client application of a second user;
wherein obtaining the event information for triggering the event-in the client application of the second user includes obtaining the event information that defines the location criteria via a graphical user interface configured to receive entry or selection of the event information from the second user that is different from the first user.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein responsive to the geolocation of the first satisfying the location criteria, triggering the event in the client application of the first user.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein the event triggered in the client application of the second user comprises a notification.
4. The method of claim 1 , wherein determination of the likelihood of incident occurrence is calculated using Bayesian statistics.
5. The method of claim 1 , further comprising obtaining behavioral information of the first user for the geolocation.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the behavioral information of the first user for the geolocation is provided by the second user.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the determination of the likelihood of incident occurrence for the geolocation and the first user is further configured to be based on the behavioral information.
8. The method of claim 1 , wherein the incident information comprises historical incident information for incidents that have previously occurred at or near the geolocation.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the historical incident information for incidents that have previously occurred at or near the geolocation includes statistical crime data.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the determination of the likelihood of incident occurrence for the geolocation and the first user is further configured to be based on the historical incident information.
11. A system for triggering events in a client application, the system comprising:
one or more physical processors configured by machine-readable instructions to:
obtain event information defining event requirements for triggering an event within an interactive client application hosted over a network, the event information specifying location criteria including an incident occurrence threshold;
obtain geolocation information, the geolocation information indicating a geolocation of a first user;
obtain demographic characteristics of the first user; obtain incident information related to the geolocation of the first user;
determine a likelihood of incident occurrence for the geolocation and the first user based on the demographic characteristics of the first user and the incident information related to the geolocation of the first user; compare the likelihood of incident occurrence at the geolocation of the first user with the location criteria to determine whether the likelihood of incident occurrence determined for the geolocation and the first user satisfies the location criteria by being within of the incident occurrence threshold specified by the location criteria;
responsive to the geolocation of the first user satisfying the location criteria, triggering the event in the client application of a second user;
wherein obtaining the event information for triggering the event in the client application of the second user includes obtaining the event information that defines the location criteria via a graphical user interface configured to receive entry or selection of the event information from the second user that is different from the first user.
12. The system of claim 11 , wherein responsive to the geolocation of the first satisfying the location criteria, triggering the event in the client application of the first user.
13. The system of claim 11 , wherein the event triggered in the client application of the second user comprises a notification.
14. The system of claim 11 , wherein determination of the likelihood of incident occurrence is calculated using Bayesian statistics.
15. The system of claim 11 , wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured to obtain a query time at which the first user is or will be present at the geolocation and wherein the determination of the likelihood of incident occurrence for the geolocation and the first user is further configured to be based on the query time.
16. The system of claim 11 , wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured to obtain behavioral information of the first user at the geolocation.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein, the behavioral information of the first user at the geolocation is provided by the second user.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the determination of the likelihood of incident occurrence for the geolocation and the first the user is further configured to be based on the behavioral information.
19. The system of claim 11 , wherein the incident information comprises historical incident information for incidents that have previously occurred at or near the geolocation.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the determination of the likelihood of incident occurrence for the geolocation and the user is further configured to be based on the historical incident information.
</claims>
</document>
