<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/738,G06F16/953,G06F40/10,G06F40/20,G06F40/295,G06Q50/10,G06Q50/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THOMSON REUTERS ENTPR CENTRE GMBH
EKMEKCI BERK
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOWALD BLAKE
HAGERMAN ELEANOR
EKMEKCI BERK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73458405
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR EVENT SUMMARIZATION FROM DATA
</title>

<abstract>
In some aspects, a method includes extracting sentences from data corresponding to documents. Each extracted sentence includes at least one matched pair (a keyword from a first or second keyword set and an entity from an entity set). The method includes ordering the plurality of extracted sentences based on a distance between a respective keyword and a respective entity in each extracted sentence. The method includes identifying a first type and a second type of extracted sentences from the ordered plurality of extracted sentences. Sentences having the first type include keywords of the first keyword set. Sentences having the second type include keywords of the second keyword set. The method includes generating an extracted summary including at least one sentence having the first type and at least one sentence having the second type, intermixed based on a predetermined order rule set. The method includes outputting the extracted summary.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for summarizing data, the method comprising:
extracting a plurality of sentences from data corresponding to one or more documents each comprising text, wherein each extracted sentence includes at least one matched pair including a keyword from a first keyword set or a second keyword set and an entity from an entity set, and wherein each extracted sentence comprises a single sentence or multiple sentences;
ordering the plurality of extracted sentences based on a distance between a respective keyword and a respective entity in each extracted sentence of the plurality of extracted sentences;
identifying a first type of extracted sentences from the ordered plurality of extracted sentences, wherein extracted sentences having the first type include one or more keywords included in the first keyword set;
identifying a second type of extracted sentences from the ordered plurality of
extracted sentences, wherein extracted sentences having the second type include one or more keywords included in the second keyword set;
generating an extracted summary that includes at least one sentence having the first type and at least one sentence having the second type, wherein the at least one sentence having the first type is intermixed with the at least one sentence having the second type based on a predetermined order rule set; and outputting the extracted summary.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first keyword set comprises a user generated keyword set, and wherein the second keyword set comprises an expanded keyword set based on the first keyword set.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the extracted summary comprises including, in the extracted summary, a first sentence having the second type, followed by a second sentence having the first type, followed by a third sentence having the first type, based on the predetermined order rule set.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the extracted summary comprises including, in the extracted summary, a first sentence having the second type, followed by a second sentence having the first type, followed by a third sentence having the second type, based on the predetermined order rule set.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining whether to include an additional sentence in the extracted summary based on a determination whether a sum of a length of the extracted summary and a length of the additional sentence is less than or equal to a threshold.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating the second keyword set, wherein generating the second keyword set comprises:
generating one or more semantic vectors;
for each keyword of the first keyword set:
determining a semantic vector having a highest similarity score to the
keyword; and
identifying one or more terms of the determined semantic vector as a
candidate term; and
selecting at least one candidate term to be added to the first keyword set to generate the second keyword set.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein:
generating the one or more semantic vectors comprises, for each of the one or more documents, generating a corresponding semantic vector based on a skipgram model that utilizes words and subwords from the document; and generating the second keyword set further comprises, for each keyword of the first keyword set:
comparing a similarity score of the determined semantic vector having the highest similarity score to a threshold; and
wherein the semantic vector is used to identify the candidate term based on a determination that the similarity score of the determined semantic vector is greater than or equal to the threshold.
8. A system comprising:
a sentence extractor configured to extract a plurality of sentences from data
corresponding to one or more documents each comprising text, wherein each extracted sentence includes at least one matched pair including a keyword from a first keyword set or a second keyword set and an entity from an entity set, and wherein each extracted sentence comprises a single sentence or multiple sentences;
a sentence organizer configured to order the plurality of extracted sentences based on a distance between a respective keyword and a respective entity in each extracted sentence of the plurality of extracted sentences;
a sentence identifier configured to:
identify a first type of extracted sentences from the ordered plurality of
extracted sentences, wherein extracted sentences having the first type include one or more keywords included in the first keyword set; and identify a second type of extracted sentences from the ordered plurality of extracted sentences, wherein extracted sentences having the second type include one or more keywords included in the second keyword set;
a summary extractor configured to extract a summary that includes at least one
sentence having the first type and at least one sentence having the second type, wherein the at least one sentence having the first type is intermixed with the at least one sentence having the second type based on a predetermined order rule set; and
an output generator configured to output the extracted summary.
9. The system of claim 8, further comprising:
a database coupled to the sentence extractor, the sentence organizer, the sentence identifier, the summary extractor, the output generator, or a combination thereof.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the database is configured to store the first keyword set, the second keyword set, the entity set, one or more thresholds, one or more extracted sentences, a plurality of matched pairs, one or more extracted summaries, the predetermined order rule set, or a combination thereof.
11. The system of claim 8, further comprising:
a processor; and
a memory storing instructions executable by the processor to cause the processor to perform one or more operations of the sentence extractor, the sentence organizer, the sentence identifier, the summary extractor, the output generator, or a combination thereof.
12. The system of claim 8, further comprising:
an interface configured to enable communication with a data source that stores the data, an electronic device, or a combination thereof.
13. The system of claim 8, further comprising:
a taxonomy expander configured to generate, based on the data and the first keyword set, the second keyword set having a greater number of keywords than the first keyword set.
14. A computer-based tool including non-transitory computer readable media having stored thereon computer code which, when executed by a processor, causes a computing device to perform operations comprising:
extracting a plurality of sentences from data corresponding to one or more documents each comprising text, wherein each extracted sentence includes at least one matched pair including a keyword from a first keyword set or a second keyword set and an entity from an entity set, and wherein each extracted sentence comprises a single sentence or multiple sentences;
ordering the plurality of extracted sentences based on a distance between a respective keyword and a respective entity in each extracted sentence of the plurality of extracted sentences;
identifying a first type of extracted sentences from the ordered plurality of extracted sentences, wherein extracted sentences having the first type include one or more keywords included in the first keyword set;
identifying a second type of extracted sentences from the ordered plurality of
extracted sentences, wherein extracted sentences having the second type include one or more keywords included in the second keyword set;
generating an extracted summary that includes at least one sentence having the first type and at least one sentence having the second type, wherein the at least one sentence having the first type is intermixed with the at least one sentence having the second type based on a predetermined order rule set; and outputting the extracted summary.
15. The computer-based tool of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: generating a second extracted summary that includes at least one sentence having the first type and at least one sentence having the second type, wherein the at least one sentence having the first type is intermixed with the at least one sentence having the second type based on the predetermined order rule set.
16. The computer-based tool of claim 14, wherein ordering the plurality of extracted sentences is based further on frequencies of respective one or more keywords included in each extracted sentence.
17. The computer-based tool of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a selection of a first event category of multiple event categories; and retrieving the first keyword set based on the selection of the first event category.
18. The computer-based tool of claim 17, wherein the multiple event categories comprise cybersecurity, terrorism, legal/non-compliance, or a combination thereof.
19. The computer-based tool of claim 14, wherein:
an extracted sentence of the plurality of extracted sentences comprises the multiple sentences; and
the multiple sentences comprise a sentence that includes the at least one matched pair, a sentence that includes the keyword of the at least one matched pair, a sentence preceding the sentence that includes the keyword of the at least one matched pair, a sentence following the sentence with the keyword the at least one matched pair, a sentence that includes the entity of the at least one matched pair, a sentence preceding the sentence that includes the entity of the at least one matched pair, a sentence following the sentence with the entity of the at least one matched pair, or a combination thereof.
20. The computer-based tool of claim 14, wherein:
the data is received from a data source that comprises a streaming data source, news data, a database, or a combination thereof; and
the entity set indicates an individual, a company, a government, an organization, or a combination thereof.
</claims>
</document>
