<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
IBM UNITED KINGDOM
IBM (CHINA) INVESTMENT COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WEI XING
ZHOU, YAN XA
HAN, SI ER
LI, HUA XA
ZHANG, XUE YING
KANG, WEI SHAN WS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72237104
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ASSOCIATION RULE MINING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Identifying relations between items in transactions. Local conditional frequency pattern trees are generated in processing nodes in a computer system. The nodes in the local conditional frequency pattern trees represent items and a frequency of the items in the transactions. Global conditional frequency pattern trees are generated in the processing nodes. Each processing node in the processing nodes generates a global conditional frequency pattern tree using a set of local conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing node. The global conditional frequency pattern trees generated by the processing nodes are distributed such that each processing node in the processing nodes has the global conditional frequency pattern trees generated by other processing nodes. Patterns are generated by the computer system. A set of rules is generated using the patterns and the global conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes, wherein the set of rules define the relations between the items.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for identifying relations between items in transactions, the method comprising:
generating, by a computer system, local conditional frequency pattern trees in processing nodes in the computer system, wherein nodes in the local conditional frequency pattern trees represent items and a frequency of the items in the transactions;
generating, by the computer system, global conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes, wherein each processing node in the processing nodes generates a global conditional frequency pattern tree using a set of local conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing node;
distributing, by the computer system, the global conditional frequency pattern trees generated by the processing nodes such that each processing node in the processing nodes has the global conditional frequency pattern trees generated by other processing nodes;
generating, by the computer system, patterns; and
generating, by the computer system, a set of rules using the patterns and the global conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes, wherein the set of rules define the relations between the items.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein generating, by the computer system, the patterns comprises:
generating, by the computer system, local pattern trees in the processing nodes using the global conditional frequency pattern trees in which the patterns are in the local pattern trees; and
wherein generating, by the computer system, the set of rules using the patterns and the global conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes, wherein the set of rules define the relations between the items comprises:
generating, by the computer system, the set of rules using the local pattern trees and the global conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes, wherein the set of rules define the relations between the items.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein generating, by the computer system, local conditional frequency pattern trees in processing nodes in the computer system comprises:
generating, by the computer system, local conditional frequency pattern trees in processing nodes in the computer system on demand.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein each node in the nodes has a local pattern tree generated using the global conditional frequency pattern tree generated by the node.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the local pattern trees are dictionary trees that stores the patterns.
6. The method of claim 1 , wherein generating, by the computer system, the local conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes in the computer system comprises:
generating, by the computer system, local frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes in the computer system, wherein nodes in the local frequency pattern trees represent the items and a frequency of the items in the transactions; and
generating, by the computer system, the local conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes in the computer system using corresponding local frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes in the computer system.
7. The method of claim 1 , wherein the transactions are online purchases of the items and wherein the set of rules is used to recommendation items to customers.
8. The method of claim 1 , wherein the transactions are selected from a group comprising online purchases of the items, instore purchases of the items, purchases of goods, purchases of services, placement of amino acids, purchases of stocks, and purchases of currency.
9. A data mining system comprising:
a computer system that generates local conditional frequency pattern trees in processing nodes in the computer system, wherein nodes in the local conditional frequency pattern trees represent items and a frequency of the items in transactions; generates global conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes, wherein each processing node in the processing nodes generates a global conditional frequency pattern tree using a set of local conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing node; distributes the global conditional frequency pattern trees generated by the processing nodes such that each processing node in the processing nodes has the global conditional frequency pattern trees generated by other processing nodes; generates patterns; and generates a set of rules using the patterns and the global conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes, wherein the set of rules define relations between the items.
10. The data mining system of claim 9, wherein in generating the patterns, the computer system generates local pattern trees in the processing nodes using the global conditional frequency pattern trees; and
wherein in generating the set of rules using the patterns and the global conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes, wherein the set of rules define the relations between the items, the computer system generates the set of rules using the local pattern trees and the global conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes, wherein the set of rules define the relations between the items.
11. The data mining system of claim 9, wherein in generating local conditional frequency pattern trees in processing nodes in the computer system, the computer system generates local conditional frequency pattern trees in processing nodes in the computer system on demand.
12. The data mining system of claim 10 wherein each node in the nodes has a local pattern tree generated using the global conditional frequency pattern tree generated by the node.
13. The data mining system of claim 10, wherein the local pattern trees are dictionary trees that stores the patterns.
14. The data mining system of claim 9, wherein in generating the local conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes in the computer system, the computer system generates local frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes in the computer system, wherein the nodes in the local frequency pattern trees represent the items and a frequency of the items in the transactions and wherein the computer system generates the local conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes using corresponding local frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes.
15. The data mining system of claim 9, wherein the transactions are online purchases of the items and wherein the set of rules is for used to recommendation items to customers.
16. The data mining system of claim 9, wherein the transactions are selected from a group comprising online purchases of the items, and instore purchases of the items.
17. A computer program product for identifying relations between items in transactions, the computer program product comprising:
a computer-readable storage media;
first program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for generating conditional frequency pattern trees in processing nodes in a computer system, wherein nodes in the conditional frequency pattern trees represent items and a frequency of the items in the transactions;
second program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for generating global conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes, wherein each processing node in the processing nodes generates a global conditional frequency pattern tree using a set of local conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing node;
third program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for distributing the global conditional frequency pattern trees generated by the processing nodes such that each processing node in the processing nodes has the global conditional frequency pattern trees generated by other processing nodes; fourth program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for generating patterns; and fifth program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for generating a set of rules using the patterns and the global conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes, wherein the set of rules define the relations between the items.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the fourth program code comprises:
program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for generating local pattern trees in the processing nodes using the global conditional frequency pattern trees; and
wherein the fifth program code comprises:
program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for generating the set of rules using the local pattern trees and the global conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes, wherein the set of rules define the relations between the items.
19. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the first program code comprises:
program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for generating local conditional frequency pattern trees in processing nodes in the computer system on demand.
20. The computer program product of claim 17 wherein the first program code comprises:
program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for generating local frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes in the computer system, wherein nodes in the local frequency pattern trees represent the items and a frequency of the items in the transactions; and
program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, generating the set of local conditional frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes using corresponding local frequency pattern trees in the processing nodes.
</claims>
</document>
