<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
VIDAL, ALLAN
GOMES DA SILVA, PEDRO HENRIQUE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65199418
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUE FOR IMPLEMENTING A RESOURCE REALLOCATION IN A NETWORK SLICING BASED SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A technique for performing a renegotiation of one or more service level agreements (SLAs), each being associated with a service being executed on one or more network slice instances (NSIs) in a network slicing based system is disclosed, wherein the renegotiation of the one or more SLAs is performed to implement a desired resource reallocation to NSIs in the system. A method implementation of the technique is performed by a service management function and comprises generating (S204), for each of the one or more SLAs, an SLA renegotiation offer reflecting an adjusted SLA required to achieve the desired resource reallocation to the NSIs in the system, ranking (S206) the SLA renegotiation offers using a classifier configured to rank SLA renegotiation offers according to their likelihood of acceptance, performing (S208) renegotiation of the one or more SLAs under prioritization of higher ranked SLA renegotiation offers among the SLA renegotiation offers, and triggering (S210) implementing the desired resource reallocation to the NSIs of the system in accordance with the adjusted SLAs of SLA renegotiation offers being accepted in the renegotiation.
</abstract>

<claims>
Claims 1. A method for performing a renegotiation of one or more service level agreements, SLAs, each being associated with a service being executed on one or more network slice instances, NSIs, in a network slicing based system, the
renegotiation of the one or more SLAs being performed to implement a desired resource reallocation to NSIs in the system, the method being performed by a service management function (402) and comprising:
generating (S204), for each of the one or more SLAs, an SLA renegotiation offer reflecting an adjusted SLA required to achieve the desired resource reallocation to the NSIs in the system;
ranking (S206) the SLA renegotiation offers using a classifier (416) configured to rank SLA renegotiation offers according to their likelihood of acceptance;
performing (S208) renegotiation of the one or more SLAs under prioritization of higher ranked SLA renegotiation offers among the SLA renegotiation offers; and triggering (S210) implementing the desired resource reallocation to the NSIs of the system in accordance with the adjusted SLAs of SLA renegotiation offers being accepted in the renegotiation.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving (S202), prior to generating (S204) the SLA renegotiation offers, a request necessitating implementing the desired resource reallocation to the NSIs in the system.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the request is one of a service creation request and a network capacity reduction request. 4. The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the adjusted SLAs required to achieve the desired resource reallocation to the NSIs in the system are reduced SLAs.
5. The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the classifier (416) is trained based on historical SLA renegotiation data using supervised learning. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the historical SLA renegotiation data comprises a plurality of data sets (300) obtained from responses to previous SLA renegotiation offers.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein each of the plurality of data sets (300) comprises an SLA renegotiation offer for an SLA and a label indicating a response to the SLA renegotiation offer.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the SLA renegotiation offer includes a service identifier of a service associated with the SLA and at least one adjusted requirement for the SLA.
9. The method of any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein each of the plurality of data sets (300) further comprises at least one of:
metadata regarding the service associated with the SLA and, optionally, regarding network slices on which the service is executed,
metadata regarding a context in which the SLA renegotiation offer was made, and
data regarding an owner of the service associated with the SLA.
10. The method of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein each of the SLA
renegotiation offers to be ranked is input as an unlabeled test data set to the classifier (416) and wherein the classifier (416) outputs a label for each test data set indicating an expected response to the respective SLA renegotiation offer along with a likelihood score for the expected response.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the SLA renegotiation offers are ranked based on the likelihood scores.
12. The method of any one of claims 6 to 11, wherein responses to the SLA renegotiation offers in the renegotiation are stored as new data sets in the historical SLA renegotiation data.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the classifier (416) is updated based on the responses to the SLA renegotiation offers.
14. The method of any one of claims 1 to 13, further comprising: splitting, prior to ranking (S206) the SLA renegotiation offers, a single SLA renegotiation offer among the SLA renegotiation offers into plural SLA renegotiation offers having a higher total likelihood of acceptance than the single SLA renegotiation offer based on simulations using the classifier.
15. The method of any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the service is a
communication service, wherein the system is a network slicing based mobile communication system, and wherein the service management function (402) is a communication service management function, CSMF.
16. The method of any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein triggering the desired resource reallocation to the NSIs of the system includes instructing a network slice management function, NSMF, (408) to implement the desired resource reallocation to the NSIs of the system.
17. The method of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the service management function (402) obtains the one or more SLAs from an NSI database (412) storing information on NSIs of the system including their associated services and SLAs.
18. The method of any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein the historical SLA
renegotiation data is collected and/or stored by at least one of a management data analytics function, MDAF, and a network data analytics function, NWDAF.
19. A computer program product comprising program code portions for performing the method of any one of claims 1 to 18 when the computer program product is executed on one or more computing devices.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, stored on a computer readable recording medium.
21. A computing unit (100) configured to execute a service management function (402) for performing a renegotiation of one or more service level agreements, SLAs, each being associated with a service being executed on one or more network slice instances, NSIs, in a network slicing based system, the renegotiation of the one or more SLAs being performed to implement a desired resource reallocation to NSIs in the system, the computing unit (100) comprising at least one processor (102) and at least one memory (104), the at least one memory (104) containing instructions executable by the at least one processor (102) such that the service management function (402) is operable to perform the method of any one of claims 1 to 18.
22. A system comprising a computing unit according to claim 21.
</claims>
</document>
