<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B49/00,G01V1/44,G06G7/48
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WOOD MACKENZIE, INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
CODY, PRESTON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72427575
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ISOLATING CONTRIBUTION OF GEOSPATIAL FACTORS TO A RESPONSE VARIABLE
</title>

<abstract>
A system that assembles a dataset including a first response variable and at least one predictor of the oil or gas well and couples the assembled dataset and geospatial data based on a location of the oil or gas well. The system generates a first predictive model based on all or a subset of non-geospatial data and determines a second response variable based on a ratio of the first response variable to a first predictive value determined from the generated first predictive model. The system generates a second predictive model for the determined second response variable based on all or a subset of the geospatial data and determines a second predictive value for the determined second response variable based on the second predictive model. The second predictive value is a productivity multiplier indicative of performance of the oil or gas well.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed:
1. A system for modeling a contribution of at least one factor to well performance comprising:
a memory; and
a processor in communication with the memory, the processor:
assembling a dataset including a first response variable received from the memory and at least one predictor of a well,
coupling the assembled dataset and geospatial data based on a location of the well,
generating a first predictive model based on all or a subset of non-geospatial data,
determining a second response variable based on a ratio of the first response variable to a first predictive value determined from the generated first predictive model, generating a second predictive model for the determined second response variable based on all or a subset of the geospatial data, and
determining a second predictive value for the determined second response variable based on the second predictive model, the second predictive value being a productivity multiplier indicative of well performance.
2. The system of Claim 1, wherein the well is a gas well or an oil well.
3. The system of Claim 1, wherein the at least one factor is indicative of one or more of a completion factor or a geological factor, the completion factor being at least one of an amount of proppant, an amount of fracking fluid, a spacing between one or more wells, a maximum treatment rate and a maximum treatment PSI and the geological factor being at least one of well formation depth, a total organic carbon, source rock brittleness, an amount of ground water saturation, a volume of clay, a well thickness, and a net Nutech Permeability.
4. The system of Claim 1, wherein the first response variable is an output and the predictor is input data mapped to the first response variable based on an empirical relationship.
5. The system of Claim 1, wherein the first response variable is binary in a classifying process and the first response variable is continuous in a regression process.
6. The system of Claim 1, wherein the geospatial data is determined from interpolation and distance calculations based on a specified geospatial location to a location of the geospatial data, and the geospatial data includes at least one of a geospatial predictor comprising at least one of a geological formation, a vertical depth below sea level of a formation of interest and at least one characteristic of a lithology of the formation of interest.
7. The system of Claim 1, wherein the non-geospatial data relates to well information that is not specific to a location of the well and comprises at least one of a length of the well, engineering parameters of the well, and owner information of the well.
8. The system of Claim 1, wherein the processor determines the productivity multiplier based on subsurface characteristics comprising at least one of source rock brittleness, formation depth or a net stock tank oil initially in place value.
9. The system of Claim 1, wherein the processor farther
determines an intensity value of the well, the intensity value being indicative of well performance in relation to an amount of proppant utilized and an amount of fracking fluid utilized, and
evaluates well performance based on a comparison of the productivity multiplier and the determined intensity value.
10. The system of Claim 1, wherein the process further
determines an intensity value of the well, the intensity value being indicative of well performance in relation to an amount of proppant utilized and an amount of fracking fluid utilized,
determines an F score value based on one or more of a completion factor, a geological factor, time, and an operator, the F score value being indicative of variability in well performance, and
evaluates well performance based on a comparison of the productivity multiplier, the determined intensity value and the determined F score value.
11. The system of Claim 10, wherein the completion factor is at least one of a spacing between one or more wells, a maximum treatment rate and a maximum treatment PSI and the geological factor is at least one of well formation depth, a total organic carbon, source rock brittleness, an amount of ground water saturation, a volume of clay, well thickness, and an average Nutech Permeability.
12. A method for modeling a contribution of at least one factor to well performance comprising the steps of:
assembling a dataset including a first response variable and at least one predictor of the well,
coupling the assembled dataset and geospatial data based on a location of the well, generating a first predictive model based on all or a subset of non-geospatial data, determining a second response variable based on a ratio of the first response variable to a first predictive value determined from the generated first predictive model, generating a second predictive model for the determined second response variable based on all or a subset of the geospatial data, and
determining a second predictive value for the determined second response variable based on the second predictive model, the second predictive value being a productivity multiplier indicative of well performance.
13. The method of Claim 12, further comprising:
determining the productivity multiplier based on subsurface characteristics comprising at least one of source rock brittleness, formation depth or a net stock tank oil initially in place value.
14. The method of Claim 12, further comprising:
determining an intensity value of the well, the intensity value being indicative of well performance in relation to an amount of proppant utilized and an amount of fracking fluid utilized, and
evaluating well performance based on a comparison of the productivity multiplier and the determined intensity value.
15. The method of Claim 12, further comprising:
determining an intensity value of the well, the intensity value being indicative of well performance in relation to an amount of proppant utilized and an amount of fracking fluid utilized,
determining an F score value based on one or more of a completion factor, a geological factor, time, and an operator, the F score value being indicative of variability in well performance, and
evaluating well performance based on a comparison of the productivity multiplier, the determined intensity value and the determined F score value,
wherein the completion factor is at least one of a spacing between one or more wells, a maximum treatment rate and a maximum treatment PSI and the geological factor is at least one of well formation depth, a total organic carbon, source rock brittleness, an amount of ground water saturation, a volume of clay, well thickness, and an average Nutech Permeability.
16. A non-transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon for modeling a contribution of at least one factor to well performance which, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to carry out the steps of:
assembling a dataset including a first response variable and at least one predictor of the well,
coupling the assembled dataset and geospatial data based on a location of the well, generating a first predictive model based on all or a subset of non-geospatial data, determining a second response variable based on a ratio of the first response variable to a first predictive value determined from the generated first predictive model, generating a second predictive model for the determined second response variable based on all or a subset of the geospatial data, and
determining a second predictive value for the second response variable based on the second predictive model, the second predictive value being a productivity multiplier indicative of well performance.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of Claim 16, the processor further carrying out the steps of:
determining the productivity multiplier based on subsurface characteristics comprising at least one of source rock brittleness, formation depth or a net stock tank oil initially in place value.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of Claim 16, the processor further carrying out the steps of:
determining an intensity value of the well, the intensity value being indicative of well performance in relation to an amount of proppant utilized and an amount of fracking fluid utilized, and
evaluating well performance based on a comparison of the productivity multiplier and the determined intensity value.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of Claim 16, the processor further carrying out the steps of:
determining an intensity value of the well, the intensity value being indicative of well performance in relation to an amount of proppant utilized and an amount of fracking fluid utilized,
determining an F score value based on one or more of a completion factor, a geological factor, time, and an operator, the F score value being indicative of variability in well performance, and
evaluating well performance based on a comparison of the productivity multiplier, the determined intensity value and the determined F score value,
wherein the completion factor is at least one of a spacing between one or more wells, a maximum treatment rate and a maximum treatment PSI and the geological factor is at least one of well formation depth, a total organic carbon, source rock brittleness, an amount of ground water saturation, a volume of clay, well thickness, and an average Nutech Permeability.
</claims>
</document>
