<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
JIANG TAO
BIRCH-JENSEN, HANS EDWARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71528046
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A WEARABLE DEVICE FOR CONTROLLING ENDPOINT DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
Technologies for a wearable device are described. One wearable device includes a radio and a processor, the processor measures sensor data (e.g., a first angle between the wearable device and a first wireless endpoint device and a second angle between the wearable device and a second wireless endpoint device) and motion data indicative of motion of the wearable device over a first duration of time. The wearable device also measure signal strength values for communications with the respective devices. The wearable device predicts, using a trained model, a position of the wearable device and to which target device the wearable device is directed. The wearable device predicts, using a second trained mode, a gesture made by the wearable device. The wearable device sends a message, corresponding to the gesture, to the target device to control the target device.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method comprising:
discovering, by a wearable device, a first device and a second device via a radio of the wearable device;
determining, by the wearable device, sensor data from a motion sensor of the wearable device, wherein the sensor data comprises (i) first angle data between the wearable device and the first device, (ii) second angle data between the wearable device and the second device and (iii) motion data indicative of motion of the wearable device over a first duration of time;
determining, by the wearable device, a first radio frequency (RF) signal strength value of a first wireless connection between the first device and the wearable device;
determining, by the wearable device, a second RF signal strength value of a second wireless connection between the second device and the wearable device;
determining, by the wearable device, using the first angle data, the second angle data, the first RF signal strength value, the second RF signal strength value, a selection of the second device;
determining, by the wearable device, a gesture associated with the motion of the wearable device; and
sending, by the wearable device, a message corresponding to the gesture to the second device.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving, by the wearable device, user input;
establishing, in response to the user input, a wireless connection with a wireless access point device, wherein the wireless access point device is communicatively coupled to the first and the second devices; and
receiving a trained model and a device database, wherein the device database comprises (vi) a first device identifier associated with the first device, (vii) a second device identifier associated with the second device and (viii) profile information for each of the first and the second devices and wherein the first and the second devices are associated with a user account.
3. The method of any of claims 1 or 2, further comprising:
before receiving the trained model,
determining first historical angle data between the wearable device and the first device and second historical angle data between the wearable device and the second device;
determining ix) first historical receive signal strength indicator (RSSI) values, each corresponding to a distance between the wearable device and the first device, and x) second historical RSSI values, each corresponding to a distance between the wearable device and the second device; and
sending the first historical angle data, the first historical RSSI values, the second historical angle data, and the second historical RSSI values to a remote server.
4. The method of any of claims 1-3, further comprising:
sending, by the wearable device, the sensor data to a remote server; and
receiving, by the wearable device, the trained model from the remote server, wherein the trained model is trained using at least the sensor data.
5. The method of any of claims 1-4, further comprising, prior to sending the second message:
verifying that the second device is among devices registered to the user account ; and determining that the second RF signal strength value exceeds a threshold value.
6. The method of any of claims 1-5, wherein sending the message comprises:
receiving, by the wearable device, a database comprising (vi) a first device identifier associated with the first device, (vii) a second device identifier associated with the second device, (viii) a first key associated with the first device, and ix) a second key associated with the second device; and
encrypting, by the wearable device using the second key, a command corresponding to the gesture to generate an encrypted command; and
wherein the message includes the encrypted command.
7. The method of any of claims 1-6, wherein prior to sending the message: determining, by the wearable device, a second key associated with the second device; and
generating, by the wearable device, the message using the second key.
8. A method comprising:
discovering, by a wearable device, a first device, a second device, and a third device via a radio of the wearable device;
determining, by the wearable device, motion data from a motion sensor of the wearable device during movement of the wearable device in a pattern that is directed towards the first device and directed away from the first device;
determining, by the wearable device, first proximity data between the wearable device and the first device at discrete points in time during the movement of the wearable device in the pattern;
determining, by the wearable device, second proximity data between the wearable device and the second device at the same discrete points in time during the movement of the wearable device in the pattern;
determining, by the wearable device, third proximity data between the wearable device and the third device at the same discrete points in time during the movement of the wearable device in the pattern;
determining, by the wearable device, which of the first, second, or third device the wearable device is a target device using the first proximity data, the second proximity data, and the third proximity data, wherein the target device is a device to which the wearable device is pointing during movement of the wearable device pointing; and
sending, by the wearable device, a message to the target device via the radio.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein discovering the first device comprises discovering the first device using a first protocol, wherein discovering the second device comprises discovering the second device using a second protocol that is different than the first protocol.
10. The method of any of claims 8-9, wherein discovering the first device, the second device, and the third device comprises discovering the first device, the second device, and the third device using a multi-protocol stack, the multi-protocol stack performing a scan on each channel of each wireless protocol of a plurality of wireless protocols.
11. A wearable electronic device comprising:
a radio;
a motion sensor; and
a processor coupled to the radio, and the motion sensor, wherein the processor is to: discover a first device and a second device via the radio;
receiving, by the processor, sensor data from the motion sensor, wherein the sensor data comprises (i) first angle data between the wearable electronic device and the first device, (ii) second angle data between the wearable electronic device and the second device and (iii) motion data indicative of motion of the wearable electronic device over a first duration of time;
determine a first radio frequency (RF) signal strength value of a first wireless connection between the first device and the wearable electronic device;
determine a second RF signal strength value of a second wireless connection between the second device and the wearable electronic device;
determine, using the first angle data, the second angle data, the first RF signal strength value, and the second RF signal strength value, a selection of the second device;
determine, using the sensor data, a gesture associated with the motion of the wearable electronic device; and
send a message corresponding to the gesture to the second device.
12. The wearable electronic device of claim 11, further comprising a user interface device, wherein the processor is further to:
receive user input from the user interface device;
establish, in response to the user input, a wireless connection with a wireless access point device, wherein the wireless access point device is communicatively coupled to the first and the second devices; and
receive a trained model and a device database, wherein the device database comprises (vi) a first device identifier associated with the first device, (vii) a second device identifier associated with the second device and (viii) profile information for each of the first and the second devices, and wherein the first and the second devices are associated with a user account.
13. The wearable electronic device of any of claims 11-12, wherein the processor is further to:
before receiving the trained model,
determine first historical angle data between the wearable device and the first device and second historical angle data between the wearable device and the second device;
determine ix) first historical receive signal strength indicator (RSSI) values, each corresponding to a distance between the wearable device and the first device, and x) second historical RSSI values, each corresponding to a distance between the wearable device and the second device; and
send the first historical angle data, the first historical RSSI values, the second historical angle data, and the second historical RSSI values to a remote server.
14. The wearable electronic device of any of claims 11-13, wherein the processor, prior to sending the second message, is further to:
verify that the second device is among devices registered to the user account ; and determine that the second RF signal strength value exceeds a threshold value.
15. The wearable electronic device of any of claims 11-14, wherein prior to sending the message, the processor is further to:
receive a database comprising (vi) a first device identifier associated with the first device, (vii) a second device identifier associated with the second device, (viii) a first key associated with the first device, and ix) a second key associated with the second device; and encrypting, by the wearable device using the second key, a command corresponding to the gesture to generate an encrypted command; and
wherein the message includes the encrypted command.
</claims>
</document>
