<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/279,G06K9/36,G06K9/62,G06K9/78,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OPEN TEXT SA ULC
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUTCHINS, GARETH EDWARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123911
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AUGMENTED DOCUMENT CAPTURE AND PROCESSING SYSTEMS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
A document capture server receives a document image from a document capture client and processes the image into an electronic document containing textual content. During capture, the document capture server determines a graphical layout of the document, extracts keywords from the document, classifies the document accordingly, and calls an artificial intelligence (AI) platform to gain insights on the textual content. The AI platform analyzes the textual content and returns additional, insightful data such as a sentiment of the textual content. The document capture server can validate the additional data, integrate the additional data in a process or workflow, and/or provide the textual content and the additional data to a content repository or a computing facility operating in an enterprise computing environment. The document capture server can provide validated data to the AI platform to improve future analyses by the AI platform.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising:
receiving, by a document capture server computer from a document capture module running on a client device, an image of a paper document;
processing the image into an electronic document, the processing producing textual content;
extracting, by the document capture server computer, keywords from the textual content;
classifying the electronic document, the classifying performed by the document capture server computer based at least in part on the keywords extracted from the textual content;
making, by the document capture server computer, a call to an artificial intelligence (Al) platform server computer, the call containing the textual content and a class of the electronic document, wherein the Al platform server computer analyzes the textual content utilizing the class and returns additional data including a sentiment of the textual content; validating, by the document capture server computer, the additional data returned by the Al platform server computer; and
providing the electronic document and the additional data to a content repository or a computing facility operating in an enterprise computing environment.
2. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the call includes an identification of a knowledge base accessible by the Al platform server computer, the knowledge base specific to the class of the electronic document.
3. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the additional data includes at least an entity, a summary, a category, or a concept that the Al platform server computer learned from the textual content.
4. The method according to claim 1 , further comprising:
providing a validated concept or entity from the validating to the Al platform server computer to improve future analyses by the Al platform server computer.
5. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the processing comprises performing at least a format conversion on the image, an image enhancement on the image, or an optical character recognition procedure on the image.
6. The method according to claim 1 , further comprising:
determining a graphical layout of the electronic document; and
classifying the electronic document based at least in part on the graphical layout of the electronic document.
7. The method according to claim 1 , further comprising:
performing a zonal extraction of a form in the image; or
performing a freeform extraction for a regular expression in the image.
8. A system, comprising:
a processor;
a non-transitory computer-readable medium; and
stored instructions translatable by the processor to perform:
receiving, from a document capture module running on a client device, an image of a paper document;
processing the image into an electronic document, the processing producing textual content;
extracting keywords from the textual content;
classifying the electronic document, the classifying based at least in part on the keywords extracted from the textual content;
making a call to an artificial intelligence (Al) platform server computer, the call containing the textual content and a class of the electronic document, wherein the Al platform server computer analyzes the textual content utilizing the class and returns additional data including a sentiment of the textual content;
validating the additional data returned by the Al platform server computer; and
providing the electronic document and the additional data to a content repository or a computing facility operating in an enterprise computing environment.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the call includes an identification of a knowledge base accessible by the Al platform server computer, the knowledge base specific to the class of the electronic document.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the additional data includes at least an entity, a summary, a category, or a concept that the Al platform server computer learned from the textual content.
1 1 . The system of claim 8, wherein the stored instructions are further translatable by the processor to perform:
providing a validated concept or entity from the validating to the Al platform server computer to improve future analyses by the Al platform server computer.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the processing comprises performing at least a format conversion on the image, an image enhancement on the image, or an optical character recognition procedure on the image.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the stored instructions are further translatable by the processor to perform:
determining a graphical layout of the electronic document; and
classifying the electronic document based at least in part on the graphical layout of the electronic document.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the stored instructions are further translatable by the processor to perform:
performing a zonal extraction of a form in the image; or
performing a freeform extraction for a regular expression in the image.
15. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions translatable by a processor to perform:
receiving, from a document capture module running on a client device, an image of a paper document;
processing the image into an electronic document, the processing producing textual content;
extracting keywords from the textual content;
classifying the electronic document, the classifying based at least in part on the keywords extracted from the textual content;
making a call to an artificial intelligence (Al) platform server computer, the call containing the textual content and a class of the electronic document, wherein the Al platform server computer analyzes the textual content utilizing the class and returns additional data including a sentiment of the textual content;
validating the additional data returned by the Al platform server computer; and providing the electronic document and the additional data to a content repository or a computing facility operating in an enterprise computing environment.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the call includes an identification of a knowledge base accessible by the Al platform server computer, the knowledge base specific to the class of the electronic document.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the additional data includes at least an entity, a summary, a category, or a concept that the Al platform server computer learned from the textual content.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the instructions are further translatable by the processor to perform:
providing a validated concept or entity from the validating to the Al platform server computer to improve future analyses by the Al platform server computer.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the processing comprises performing at least a format conversion on the image, an image enhancement on the image, or an optical character recognition procedure on the image.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the instructions are further translatable by the processor to perform:
determining a graphical layout of the electronic document; and
classifying the electronic document based at least in part on the graphical layout of the electronic document.
</claims>
</document>
