<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/04,G06Q10/06,G06Q50/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PRO-CORE TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
TORRES, CARLOS
PELIKS, WOJCIECH
HOWES, FATIMAZAHRA
MURPHY, NICHOLAS
WEEKS, MARK
KAUFMAN, NINA
KAUR, ARSHDEEP
SELLIN, EVIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69641339
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PREDICTING RISK LEVEL OF PUNCH ITEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A computing system such as a back-end platform for construction management software may employ a predictive model to provide individuals responsible for overseeing a construction project with a prediction of a 'risk level' for a punch item, which indicates a risk of the punch item not being completed by the punch item's target completion date. Such a predictive model may be defined based on historical-punch-items data. After defining the predictive model, the computing system may receive data defining a given punch item and input such data into the predictive model, which may in turn output a given predicted risk level for the given punch item. Thereafter, the computing system may cause a client station to display an indication of the given predicted risk level for the given punch item.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising:
a network interface;
at least one processor;
a non-transitory computer-readable medium; and
program instructions stored on the non-transitory computer-readable medium that are executable by the at least one processor to cause the computing system to perform functions including:
based on historical -punch-items data, defining a predictive model that is configured to receive data defining a punch item as inputs and output a predicted risk level for the punch item;
receiving data defining a given punch item;
inputting at least the received data defining the given punch item into the predictive model and thereby determining a given predicted risk level for the given punch item that indicates a risk of the given punch item not being completed on time; and
causing a client station to display an indication of the given predicted risk level for the given punch item.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the historical -punch-items data comprises (a) respective data defining each of a plurality of past punch items and (b) a respective label for each of the plurality of past punch items that indicates an actual completion date of the past punch item relative to the target completion data of the past punch item.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein defining the predictive model comprises:
applying a machine learning technique to the historical -punch-items data to define the predictive model.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the predictive model comprises one of (a) a random forest classifier model, (b) a gradient boosting mode, or (c) a logistic regression model.
5. The computing system of claim 1, further comprising program instructions stored on the non-transitory computer-readable medium that executable by the at least one processor to cause the computing system to perform functions including:
determining a confidence level associated with the given predicted risk level for the given punch item; and
causing the client station to display an indication of the confidence level associated with the given predicted risk level for the given punch item.
6. The computing system of claim 1, the computing system further comprising program instructions stored on the non-transitory computer-readable medium that executable by the at least one processor to cause the computing system to perform functions including:
re-defining the predictive model using one or both of (a) newly-available historical punchitem data and (b) different model parameters for the predictive model.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the indication of the given predicted risk level for the given punch item comprises an indicator having a color that corresponds to the given predicted risk level.
8. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the data defining the given punch item comprises one or more of (a) item-specific data for the given punch item and (b) project-specific data for the given punch item.
9. The computing system of claim 1, the computing system further comprising program instructions stored on the non-transitory computer-readable medium that executable by the at least one processor to cause the computing system to perform functions including:
after receiving data defining the given punch item, analyzing the data defining the given punch item to identify at least one sentiment included in the data defining the given punch item; and
including the identified at least one sentiment in the data defining the given punch item that is input into the predictive model.
10. The computing system of claim 1, wherein determining the given predicted risk level for the given punch item comprises: predicting a respective likelihood of the given punch item being completed during each of a plurality of different time frames relative to a target completion date of the given punch item, wherein each of the plurality of different time frames corresponds to a respective risk level; identifying the time frame during which the given punch item is most likely to be completed; and
identifying the risk level corresponding to the identified time frame as the given risk level.
11. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the given predicted risk level may be one of (a) a low predicted risk level indicating that the given punch item is most likely to be completed at or before a target completion date of the given punch item, (b) a medium predicted risk level indicating that the given punch item is most likely to be completed within a given number of days after the target completion date of the given punch item, and (c) a high predicted risk level indicating that the given punch item is most likely to be completed subsequent to the given number of days after the target completion date of the given punch item.
12. The computing system of claim 1, wherein causing the client station to display the indication of the given predicted risk level for the given punch item comprises causing the client station to display the indication of the given predicted risk level for the given punch item within an interface of a front-end software application for managing a construction project.
13. The computing system of claim 1, further comprising program instructions stored on the non-transitory computer-readable medium that executable by the at least one processor to cause the computing system to perform functions including:
identifying at least one data metric included in the data defining the given punch item that most likely led the predictive model to output the given predicted risk level for the given punch item; and
causing the client station to display an indication of the confidence level associated with the predicted risk level for the given punch item.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, wherein the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium is provisioned with software that is executable to cause a computing system to perform functions including:
based on historical -punch-items data, defining a predictive model that is configured to receive data defining a punch item as inputs and output a predicted risk level for the punch item; receiving data defining a given punch item;
inputting at least the received data defining the given punch item into the predictive model and thereby determining a given predicted risk level for the given punch item that indicates a risk of the given punch item not being completed on time; and
causing a client station to display an indication of the given predicted risk level for the given punch item.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the software is executable to cause the computing system to perform further functions including: determining a confidence level associated with the given predicted risk level for the given punch item; and
causing the client station to display an indication of the confidence level associated with the given predicted risk level for the given punch item.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the software is executable to cause the computing system to perform further functions including: after receiving data defining the given punch item, analyzing the data defining the given punch item to identify at least one sentiment included in the data defining the given punch item; and
including the identified at least one sentiment in the data defining the given punch item that is input into the predictive model.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein determining the given predicted risk level for the given punch item comprises:
predicting a respective likelihood of the given punch item being completed during each of a plurality of different time frames relative to a target completion date of the given punch item, wherein each of the plurality of different time frames corresponds to a respective risk level; identifying the time frame during which the given punch item is most likely to be completed; and
identifying the risk level corresponding to the identified time frame as the given risk level.
18. A computer-implemented method comprising:
based on historical -punch-items data, defining a predictive model that is configured to receive data defining a punch item as inputs and output a predicted risk level for the punch item; receiving data defining a given punch item;
inputting at least the received data defining the given punch item into the predictive model and thereby determining a given predicted risk level for the given punch item that indicates a risk of the given punch item not being completed on time; and
causing a client station to display an indication of the given predicted risk level for the given punch item.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, further comprising:
after receiving data defining the given punch item, analyzing the data defining the given punch item to identify at least one sentiment included in the data defining the given punch item; and
including the identified at least one sentiment in the data defining the given punch item that is input into the predictive model.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein determining the given predicted risk level for the given punch item comprises:
predicting a respective likelihood of the given punch item being completed during each of a plurality of different time frames relative to a target completion date of the given punch item, wherein each of the plurality of different time frames corresponds to a respective risk level; identifying the time frame during which the given punch item is most likely to be completed; and
identifying the risk level corresponding to the identified time frame as the given risk level.
</claims>
</document>
