<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/145,G01N33/487
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROCHE
ROCHE DIABETES CARE
ROCHE DIABETES CARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
MEARS, MARK, GILMORE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70476514
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD TO LOCATE GLUCOSE SOURCES OR DIABETES TESTING SUPPLIES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, devices and methods for assisting users in locating sources of carb-related food items. A hypoglycemic event is detected via a blood glucose monitoring device and a location of a user's mobile device is detected during the hypoglycemic event. In response to the location of the mobile device being at the user's home, carb-related food items in a refrigerator or carb-related food items purchased within a predefined period of time are displayed on the mobile device. In response to the location of the mobile device being outside of the user's home, locations of a predefined source of carbohydrates outside of the home are displayed on the mobile device.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method comprising:
detecting, via information gathered from a blood glucose monitoring device, a hypoglycemic event associated with a user;
detecting a location of a mobile device associated with the user during the hypoglycemic event;
displaying, on the mobile device in response to the location of the mobile device being at a home of the user, a plurality of carb-related food items in a refrigerator or purchased within a predefined period of time, wherein the plurality of carb-related food items are displayed in order of glycemic index; and
displaying, on the mobile device in response to the location of the mobile device being outside of the home of the user, locations of a predefined source of carbohydrates outside of the home that are within a predefined distance of the location of the mobile device, wherein the locations of the predefined source of carbohydrates are displayed in order of travel time proximity from the location of the mobile device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the location of the mobile device is detected via global positioning system (GPS) signals, Wi-Fi signals, Bluetooth beacon signals, near-field
communication (NFC) signals, or another RF communication signal.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the location of the mobile device comprises a floor of a building on which the mobile device is located, and wherein the locations of the predefined source of carbohydrates outside of the home comprise a location of a vending machine.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the location of the mobile device comprises a latitude and longitude of the mobile device, a street address, or a user-friendly location name.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein each of the locations of the predefined source of carbohydrates are displayed with at least one of an establishment name, a latitude and longitude, an indoor identifier, an outdoor identifier, a user-friendly location name, a picture, an indication of public accessibility, or a map.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving a UPC code associated with at least one of the plurality of carb-related food items that indicates the glycemic index of the at least one of the plurality of carb-related food items.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving, from a refrigerator comprising a camera, images of the carb-related food items in the refrigerator;
comparing the images of the carb-related food items in the refrigerator with other images of carb-related food items; and
wherein the displaying of the plurality of carb-related food items comprises:
displaying the images of the carb-related food items in the refrigerator in response to a threshold level of similar features being detected between the images of the carb-related food items in the refrigerator and the other images of carb-related food items.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving at least one image of the carb-related food items in the refrigerator, wherein the receipt of the at least one image of the carb-related food items in the refrigerator indicates the detection of the carb-related food items by a camera of the refrigerator.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the carb-related food items in the refrigerator are displayed on the mobile device with at least one of a name, a photo, or a location in the refrigerator, and wherein the carb-related food items purchased within the predefined period of time are displayed on the mobile device with at least one of a name or a photo.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving hours of operation for the locations of the predefined source of carbohydrates outside the home; and
displaying a subset of the locations of the predefined source of carbohydrates outside the home that are currently opened based on the hours of operation.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving an accepted form of payment at the locations of the predefined source of carbohydrates outside the home; and
displaying a subset of the locations of the predefined source of carbohydrates outside the home that accept at least one predefined form of payment.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving an indication of the locations of the predefined source of carbohydrates outside the home that sell non-diet beverages; and
displaying a subset of the locations of the predefined source of carbohydrates outside the home that sell the non-diet beverages.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving an indication of a user selection of a mode of transportation, wherein the locations of the predefined source of carbohydrates outside of the home are displayed in the order of travel time proximity based on the mode of transportation.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
displaying the locations of the predefined source of carbohydrates outside of the home in response to the carb-related food items in the refrigerator or purchased within the predefined period of time being below a predefined glycemic index.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving an indication of a user selection of one of the locations of the predefined source of carbohydrates; and providing the selected one of the locations of the predefined source of carbohydrates to a map application on the mobile device for guiding the user from the location of the mobile device to the selected one of the locations.
16. A method comprising:
detecting, based on information from a diabetes medical device, that a supply of a diabetes medical product associated with the diabetes medical device is below a predefined threshold;
identifying, based on a relative location of a mobile device associated with a user, a location of a plurality of diabetes medical supplies facilities;
displaying on the mobile device an amount of the diabetes medical product in stock at each of the diabetes medical supplies facilities based on information from a respective dataset of diabetes medical supplies for each of the diabetes medical supplies facilities;
detecting, based on information from a blood glucose monitoring device, an occurrence of an extreme diabetic event associated with the user; and
displaying, on the mobile device, a plurality of diabetes medical treatment facilities having a medical facility type associated with treatment of the extreme diabetic event.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the diabetes medical device comprises an insulin pump or a smart insulin pen, and wherein the diabetes medical product is insulin, wherein the method further comprises:
receiving an indication from the insulin pump or the smart insulin pen that the insulin is below the predefined threshold.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the diabetes medical device comprises a blood-glucose (BG) meter, wherein the diabetes medical product is a test strip, wherein the method further comprises:
receiving an indication from the BG meter that a number associated with the test strip is below the predefined threshold.
19. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
displaying, on the mobile device, a subset of the medical supplies facilities having a facility type.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the facility type comprises an urgent care clinic, an emergency room, a hospital, a convenient care or retail clinic, a mobile care clinic, or a primary care clinic.
21. The method of claim 16, wherein the extreme diabetic event is a hypoglycemic event or hyperglycemic event.
22. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
displaying at least one of a prescription associated with the diabetes medical product, a dosage associated with the diabetes medical product, a name associated with the diabetes medical product, a phone number of a doctor associated with the diabetes medical product, or a phone number of a pharmacy associated with the diabetes medical product.
23. The method of claim 16, wherein the amount of the diabetes medical product in stock at each of the diabetes medical supplies facilities is the amount of a predefined brand of the diabetes medical product.
24. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
treating a diabetic condition via the diabetes medical device using the diabetes medical product.
</claims>
</document>
