<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/12,G01S13/34,G01S13/48,G01S13/931,G06N20/00,G06N3/02,H01Q21/06,H01Q3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
METAWAVE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZAIDI, Abdullah Ahsan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74100193
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BEAM STEERING RADAR WITH SELECTIVE SCANNING MODE FOR AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES
</title>

<abstract>
Examples disclosed herein relate to a beam steering radar for use in an autonomous vehicle. The beam steering radar has a radar module with at least one beam steering antenna, a transceiver, and a controller that can cause the transceiver to perform, using the at least one beam steering antenna, a first scan of a first field-of-view (FoV) with a first chirp slope in a first radio frequency (RF) signal and a second scan of a second FoV with a second chirp slope in a second RF signal. The radar module also has a perception module having a machine learning- trained classifier that can detect objects in a path and surrounding environment of the autonomous vehicle based on the first chirp slope in the first RF signal and classify the objects based on the second chirp slope in the second RF signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A beam steering radar for use in an autonomous vehicle, comprising:
a radar module, comprising:
at least one beam steering antenna;
a transceiver; and
a controller configured to cause the transceiver to perform, using the at least one beam steering antenna, a first scan of a first field-of-view (FoV) with a first chirp slope in a first radio frequency (RF) signal and a second scan of a second FoV different from the first FoV with a second chirp slope different from the first chirp slope in a second RF signal; and
a perception module comprising a machine learning-trained classifier configured to detect one or more objects in a path and surrounding environment of the autonomous vehicle based on the first chirp slope in the first RF signal and classify the one or more objects based on the second chirp slope in the second RF signal, wherein the perception module is configured to transmit object data and radar control information to the radar module.
2. The beam steering radar of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: determine a range resolution of the one or more objects from the object data, wherein the range resolution is inversely proportional to an effective bandwidth of a chirp, and
determine a maximum velocity of the one or more objects from the object data, wherein the maximum velocity is inversely proportional to a chirp time of a chirp.
3. The beam steering radar of claim 1, wherein the second chirp slope is greater than the first chirp slope.
4. The beam steering radar of claim 3, wherein the controller is further configured to obtain a first range resolution of the one or more objects from the object data that corresponds to the first chirp slope in the first RF signal and obtain a second range resolution lesser than the first range resolution of the one or more objects from the object data that corresponds to the second chirp slope in the second RF signal.
5. The beam steering radar of claim 3, wherein the controller is further configured to determine a first maximum velocity of the one or more objects from the object data that corresponds to the first chirp slope in the first RF signal and determine a second maximum velocity lesser than the first maximum velocity of the one or more objects from the object data that corresponds to the second chirp slope in the second RF signal.
6. The beam steering radar of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to cause the transceiver to transmit, using the at least one beam steering antenna, the first RF signal having a first number of chirps at the first chirp slope to scan the first FoV up to a first range and transmit, using the at least one beam steering antenna, the second RF signal having a second number of chirps at the second chirp slope to scan the second FoV up to a second range different from the first range.
7. The beam steering radar of claim 6, wherein:
the second chirp slope is greater than the first chirp slope, and
the second range is lesser than the first range.
8. The beam steering radar of claim 1 , wherein the perception module is further configured to send an indication to the radar module that causes the radar module to activate a selective scanning mode of the beam steering radar, and wherein the controller causes the transceiver to adjust a chirp slope of a transmission beam by adjusting from the first chirp slope to the second chirp slope.
9. The beam steering radar of claim 8, wherein the perception module is further configured to detect a change in the path based at least in part on the object data, and wherein the perception module is configured to generate the indication in response to detecting the change in the path.
10. The beam steering radar of claim 8, wherein the chirp slope is defined by a ratio of an effective bandwidth of one or more chirps in the transmission beam to a chirp time of the one or more chirps in the transmission beam.
11. The beam steering radar of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to cause the transceiver to perform the first scan and the second scan based on a set of scan parameters that is adjustable to produce a plurality of transmission beams through the at least one beam steering antenna.
12. The beam steering radar of claim 1 1, wherein the set of scan parameters includes one or more of a total angle of a scan area defining the FoV, a beam width of each of the plurality of transmission beams, a scan angle of each of the plurality of transmission beams, indication of the first chirp slope in the first RF signal, indication of the second chirp slope in the second RF signal, a chirp time, a chirp segment time, or a number of chirps.
13. A method of object detection and classification, comprising:
transmitting, at a transceiver using at least one beam steering antenna, a first transmission beam comprising a first chirp slope in a first field-of-view (FoV) at a first time; receiving, at the transceiver through the at least one beam steering antenna, a first reflected signal associated with the first transmission beam;
detecting, using a perception module, an object in a path and surrounding environment from the first reflected signal based on the first chirp slope in the first transmission beam;
transmitting, at the transceiver using the at least one beam steering antenna, a second transmission beam comprising a second chirp slope greater than the first chirp slope in a second FoV different from the first FoV at a second time subsequent to the first time; and
classifying, using the perception module, the object from a second reflected signal associated with the second transmission beam based on the second chirp slope in the second transmission beam.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein:
the transmitting the first transmission beam comprises transmitting, using the at least one beam steering antenna, the first transmission beam having a first number of chirps at the first chirp slope to scan the first FoV up to a first range, and
the transmitting the second transmission beam comprises transmitting, using the at least one beam steering antenna, the second transmission beam having a second number of chirps at the second chirp slope to scan the second FoV up to a second range different from the first range.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein:
the second chirp slope is greater than the first chirp slope, and
the second range is lesser than the first range.
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising:
sending, using the perception module, an indication to a controller that causes the transceiver to activate a selective scanning mode of the transceiver; and
adjusting, at the transceiver, a chirp slope of a transmission beam by adjusting from the first chirp slope to the second chirp slope.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the detecting the object comprises detecting, using the perception module, a change in the path based at least in part on object data acquired with the detecting, further comprising generating, using the perception module, the indication in response to detecting the change in the path.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein:
the transmitting the first transmission beam comprises performing a first scan in a first range of angles that corresponds to the first FoV based on the first chirp slope in the first transmission beam, and
the transmitting the second transmission beam comprises performing a second scan in a second range of angles different from the first range of angles that corresponds to the second FoV based on the second chirp slope in the second transmission beam.
19. An autonomous driving system, comprising:
a non-transitory memory; and
one or more hardware processors coupled to the nontransitory memory and configured to execute instructions from the non-transitory memory to cause the autonomous driving system to perform operations comprising:
performing a first scan of a first field-of-view (FoV) up to a first range using a first chirp slope in a first transmission beam;
detecting an object in a first received reflected signal based on the first chirp slope in the first transmission beam;
performing a second scan of a second FoV different from the first FoV up to a second range different from the first range using a second chirp slope greater than the first chirp slope in a second transmission beam; and
classifying the object from a second received reflected signal associated with the second transmission beam based on the second chirp slope in the second transmission beam.
20. The autonomous driving system of claim 19, wherein:
the second chirp slope is greater than the first chirp slope,
the second range is lesser than the first range, and
the first FoV corresponds to a first range of angles of interest and the second FoV corresponds to a second range of angles of interest different from the first range of angles of interest.
</claims>
</document>
