<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01J3/44,G01N21/64
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AKOYA BIOSCIENCES
</assignee>

<inventors>
COLTHARP, CARLA
JOHNSON, KENT S.
MILLER PETER J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66655445
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTISPECTRAL SAMPLE IMAGING
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure features methods that include exposing a biological sample to illumination light and measuring light emission from the sample to obtain N sample images (104), where each sample image corresponds to a different combination of a wavelength band of the illumination light and one or more wavelength bands of the light emission, where the one or more wavelength bands of the light emission define a wavelength range, and where N > 1, and exposing the sample to illumination light in a background excitation band and measuring light emission from the sample in a background spectral band to obtain a background image of the sample (106), where the background spectral band corresponds to a wavelength within the wavelength range. From the background image, an autofluorescence image is obtained.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising:
exposing a biological sample to illumination light and measuring light emission from the sample to obtain N sample images, wherein each sample image corresponds to a different combination of a wavelength band of the illumination light and one or more wavelength bands of the light emission, wherein the one or more wavelength bands of the light emission define a wavelength range, and wherein N > 1; and
exposing the sample to illumination light in a background excitation band and measuring light emission from the sample in a background spectral band to obtain a background image of the sample, wherein the background spectral band corresponds to a wavelength within the wavelength range,
wherein for each of one or more non-endogenous spectral contributors in the sample exposed to the illumination light in the background excitation band, a spectral emission intensity at each wavelength within the background spectral band is 10% or less of a maximum measured spectral emission intensity of the non-endogenous spectral contributor following excitation of the sample in each of the wavelength bands of the illumination light and the background excitation band.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising obtaining an autofluorescence image of the sample from the background image.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein for each of one or more non-endogenous spectral contributors in the sample exposed to the illumination light in the background excitation band, the spectral emission intensity at each wavelength within the background spectral band is 4% or less of the maximum measured spectral emission intensity of the non-endogenous spectral contributor following excitation of the sample in each of the wavelength bands of the illumination light and the background excitation band.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein for each of one or more non-endogenous spectral contributors in the sample exposed to the illumination light in the background excitation band, the spectral emission intensity at each wavelength within the background spectral band is 2% or less of the maximum measured spectral emission intensity of the non-endogenous spectral contributor following excitation of the sample in each of the wavelength bands of the illumination light and the background excitation band.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the background spectral band comprises a distribution of wavelengths having a full width at half maximum (FWHM) spectral width Dl and a center wavelength c. and wherein the wavelengths within the background spectral band correspond to wavelengths within a range from l -Dl/2 to l +Dl/2.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein N > 3.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein N > 5.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample comprises M non-endogenous spectral contributors, and wherein M < N.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein M > 4.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein M > 6.
11. The method of claim 2, further comprising displaying the autofluorescence image on a display device.
12. The method of claim 2, further comprising determining, at each of multiple locations in the sample, an amount of autofluorescence emission from the sample.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising, at each of the multiple locations in the sample, and for one or more of the N sample images:
adjusting values corresponding to sample emission intensity to correct for autofluorescence emission from the sample based on the amount of autofluorescence emission at each of the multiple locations and at least one pure spectrum of autofluorescence emission from the sample.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one pure spectrum of autofluorescence emission comprises multiple pure spectra of autofluorescence emission, and wherein the multiple pure spectra of autofluorescence emission each correspond to a different subset of the multiple locations.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising:
decomposing at least some of the N sample images based on the amount of autofluorescence emission from the sample at each of the multiple locations to obtain M spectral contributor images, wherein each of the M spectral contributor images corresponds to light emission only from a different one of the non-endogenous spectral contributors; and at each of the multiple locations, determining an amount of the M non-endogenous spectral contributors in the sample.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising decomposing the at least some of the N sample images based on at least one pure spectrum of autofluorescence emission from the sample.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the at least one pure spectrum of autofluorescence emission comprises multiple pure spectra of autofluorescence emission, and wherein the multiple pure spectra of autofluorescence emission each correspond to a different subset of the multiple locations.
18. The method of claim 9, wherein a sum of spectral emission intensities of each nonendogenous spectral contributor in the sample at each wavelength within the background spectral band is 10% or less of a total fluorescence emission intensity in the background spectral band.
19. The method of claim 2, further comprising classifying pixels of one or more of the sample images into different classes based on information derived from the autofluorescence image.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the different classes correspond to different cell types in the sample.
21. The method of claim 8, wherein the M non-endogenous spectral contributors comprise one or more fluorescent species that selectively bind to different chemical moieties in the sample.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the one or more fluorescent species comprise one or more immunofluorescent probes.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein the M non-endogenous spectral contributors comprise one or more counterstains.
24. A computer readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a processing device, cause the processing device to:
decompose a plurality of sample images of a biological sample using
autofluorescence information for the sample to obtain one or more non-endogenous spectral contributor images of the sample;
determine an amount of one or more non-endogenous spectral contributors at multiple locations in the sample based on the one or more non-endogenous spectral contributor images; and
generate an output display comprising at least one of the non-endogenous spectral contributor images on a display device connected to the processing device,
wherein each sample image corresponds to a different combination of a wavelength band of illumination light used to illuminate the sample and one or more wavelength bands of emission light from the sample, the one or more wavelength bands of emission light defining a wavelength range;
wherein the background image corresponds to illumination of the sample with light in a background excitation band and measurement of light emission from the sample in a background spectral band; and
wherein for each of the one or more non-endogenous spectral contributors in the sample illuminated with light in the background excitation band, a spectral emission intensity at each wavelength within the background spectral band is 10% or less of a maximum measured spectral emission intensity of the non-endogenous spectral contributor following excitation of the sample in each wavelength band of the illumination light and the background excitation band.
25. The storage medium of claim 24, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the processing device, cause the processing device to obtain the autofluorescence information for the sample from a background image of the sample.
26. The storage medium of claim 25, wherein each non-endogenous spectral contributor image corresponds only to light emission from a different one of the non-endogenous spectral contributors in the sample.
27. The storage medium of claim 25, wherein for each of the one or more nonendogenous spectral contributors in the sample illuminated with light in the background excitation band, the spectral emission intensity at each wavelength within the background spectral band is 4% or less of the maximum measured spectral emission intensity of the nonendogenous spectral contributor following excitation of the sample in each wavelength band of the illumination light and the background excitation band.
28. The storage medium of claim 25, wherein for each of the one or more nonendogenous spectral contributors in the sample illuminated with light in the background excitation band, the spectral emission intensity at each wavelength within the background spectral band is 2% or less of the maximum measured spectral emission intensity of the nonendogenous spectral contributor following excitation of the sample in each wavelength band of the illumination light and the background excitation band.
29. The storage medium of claim 24, wherein the sample comprises M non-endogenous spectral contributors, and wherein M < N.
30. The storage medium of claim 29, wherein M > 4.
31. The storage medium of claim 29, wherein M > 6.
32. The storage medium of claim 25, wherein the autofluorescence information comprises an amount of autofluorescence emission from the sample at each of the multiple locations in the sample.
33. The storage medium of claim 32, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the processing device, cause the processing device to decompose the plurality of sample images using the autofluorescence information and at least one pure spectrum of
autofluorescence emission from the sample.
34. The storage medium of claim 33, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the processing device, cause the processing device to determine the at least one pure spectrum of autofluorescence from the background image.
35. The storage medium of claim 33, wherein the at least one pure spectrum of autofluorescence emission from the sample comprises two or more different pure spectra of autofluorescence emission from the sample, and wherein each of the different pure spectra corresponds to a different subset of the multiple spatial locations.
36. The storage medium of claim 33, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the processing device, cause the processing device to adjust values corresponding to sample emission intensity in each of the sample images to correct for autofluorescence emission from the sample based on the amount of autofluorescence emission at each of the multiple locations and the at least one pure spectrum of autofluorescence emission from the sample.
37. The storage medium of claim 24, wherein a sum of spectral emission intensities of each non-endogenous spectral contributor in the sample at each wavelength within the background spectral band is 10% or less of a total fluorescence emission intensity in the background spectral band.
38. The storage medium of claim 24, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the processing device, cause the processing device to classify pixels of one or more of the sample images into different classes based on the autofluorescence information.
39. The storage medium of claim 38, wherein the different classes correspond to different cell types in the sample.
40. The storage medium of claim 27, wherein the M non-endogenous spectral contributors comprise one or more fluorescent species that selectively bind to different chemical moieties in the sample. 41. The storage medium of claim 40, wherein the M non-endogenous spectral contributors comprise or more counterstains.
</claims>
</document>
