<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B15/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
TRAN, CINDY
NI, YUZHAO
SCHAIRER, DAVID
LIMAYE, ASHWIN
CLIFTON, THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68345047
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SUMMARILY CONVEYING SMART APPLIANCE STATUSES
</title>

<abstract>
Implementing methods to provide a shortened textual summary that includes status information that is most pertinent to the user for a plurality of connected smart appliances. The method includes determining a list of current statuses for a plurality of enabled smart appliances and filtering the list to remove statuses that may not be of interest to the user. The filtering of the list is based on a current context of the requesting user and one or more previous contexts of the user. The resulting filtered statuses are then converted to textual snippets, summarized, and provided to the user via one or more output devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer implemented method, comprising:
determining a list of current statuses of a plurality of smart appliances controlled by a user;
determining a current user context based on one or more contextual signals generated by one or more computing devices controlled by the user;
identifying, from a plurality of past user contexts, one or more comparable past user contexts that are comparable to the current user context;
for each of the one or more comparable past user contexts, obtaining a corresponding list of past statuses of the plurality of smart appliances;
filtering the list of current statuses to remove one or more of the current statuses and generate a filtered list of current statuses, wherein the filtering is based on a comparison of the list of current statuses with the one or more lists of past statuses;
generating one or more textual snippets based on the filtered list of current statuses;
generating a textual summary of the one or more textual snippets; and
providing the textual summary to an output device of one or more of the computing devices controlled by the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the filtering comprises removing, from the list of current statuses, one or more of the current statuses that match corresponding past statuses from the list of past statuses.
3. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the filtered list of current statuses includes current statuses from the list of current statuses that deviate from the list of past statuses.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
organizing one or more of the statuses of the filtered list into a grouping based on similarity between current statuses of the smart appliances of the group; wherein generating the textual summary includes generating a textual clause for the grouping.
5. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the output device provides the user with the textual summary via audio.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising providing an audio prompt indicating one or more of the smart appliances and an offer to change the status of the indicated smart appliance.
7. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the output device includes a visual display.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
providing a control interface to the user to allow the user to adjust the current status of at least one of the smart appliances.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising:
receiving, in response to providing the control interface, an indication from the user to adjust the current status of at least one of the smart appliances; and
providing data indicative of the indication to the at least one smart appliance.
10. The method of any preceding claim, further comprising:
receiving a request from the user via an input device of the one or more of the computing devices, wherein the input device is associated with a location; and
wherein the current user context is determined based at least in part on the location.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein filtering the list of current statuses includes filtering out one or more statuses that are associated with the location.
12. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the current user context is determined based at least in part on a current time of day.
13. The method of any preceding claim, further comprising:
receiving, at one or more microphones of one or more of the computing devices, an audio input from the user;
identifying audio profiles of a plurality of users; and determining an identity of the user based on the audio input and the audio profiles, wherein the one or more past user contexts are associated with the
determined identity.
14. The method of any preceding claim, further comprising:
storing the current user context with the plurality of past user contexts.
15. A computer implemented method, comprising:
determining a list of current statuses of a plurality of smart appliances controlled by a user;
organizing the list of current statuses of the plurality of smart appliances into groups of smart appliances by device types of the smart appliances;
generating a device type textual snippet for one or more of the groups of smart appliances;
generating a textual summary of the one or more device type textual snippets; and providing the textual summary to an output device of one or more computing devices controlled by the user.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein one of the groups of smart appliances includes a plurality of lighting units, and the method further includes:
determining a count of lighting units of the plurality of lighting units that have a particular status;
wherein generating a device type textual snippet includes generating a lighting unit textual snippet that includes a plurality of tokens, wherein at least one of the plurality of tokens is the count.
17. A computer implemented method, comprising:
determining a list of current statuses of a plurality of smart appliances controlled by a user;
determining a current user context based on one or more contextual signals generated by one or more computing devices controlled by the user;
identifying one or more past user contexts that are comparable to the current user context; identifying one or more requests or commands issued by the user in association with controlling one or more of the plurality of smart appliances, wherein the one or more requests or commands were issued by the user while the user was in the one or more past user contexts;
filtering the list of current statuses to remove one or more of the current statuses and generate a filtered list of current statuses, wherein the filtering is based at least in part on the identified one or more requests or commands;
generating one or more textual snippets based on the filtered list of current statuses;
generating a textual summary of the one or more textual snippets; and
providing the textual summary to an output device of one or more of the computing devices controlled by the user.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising:
organizing one or more of the statuses of the filtered list into a grouping based on similarity between current statuses of the smart appliances of the group;
wherein generating the textual summary includes generating a textual clause for the grouping.
19. The method of claim 17 or claim 18, wherein the output device provides the user with the textual summary via audio.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising providing an audio prompt indicating one or more of the smart appliances and a solicitation to change the status of the indicated smart appliance.
</claims>
</document>
