<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C04B18/16,C04B22/00,C04B28/02,C04B40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THOMAS, MICHAEL
CARBONCURE TECHNOLOGIES
MONKMAN, GEORGE SEAN
FORGERON, DEAN
HANMORE, Alex
</assignee>

<inventors>
THOMAS, MICHAEL
MONKMAN, GEORGE SEAN
FORGERON, DEAN
HANMORE, Alex
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72941341
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CARBONATION OF CONCRETE AGGREGATES
</title>

<abstract>
Provided herein are methods and compositions for carbonation of recycled concrete aggregates (RCA) to produce carbonated RCA. In addition, uses of the carbonated RCA, such as in building materials, and building materials containing RCA, are included. Carbonation of RCA may be used alone or may be used in combination with other carbonation processes associated with concrete manufacture, such as carbonation of wet concrete mixes and/or carbonation of concrete wash water.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is
1. A wet concrete mix comprising hydraulic cement, water, and aggregate, wherein a portion of the aggregate is carbonated recycled concrete aggregate (RCA), and wherein either the cement or the water, or both, is at least partially carbonated.
2. The concrete mix of claim 1 wherein the portion of aggregate that is carbonated RCA is 0.5% to 90% of the total aggregate.
3. The concrete mix of claim 1 or 2 wherein the carbonated RCA comprises coarse aggregate, fine aggregate, or a combination thereof.
4. The concrete mix of claim any preceding claim comprising carbonated hydraulic cement, wherein the hydraulic cement is carbonated at a level of 0.005-5% carbon dioxide (as carbon dioxide by weight cement).
5. The concrete mix of claim any previous claim wherein the water comprises carbonated wash water.
6. The concrete mix of claim 5 wherein the water comprises 1-100% carbonated wash water.
7. The concrete mix of claim 1 wherein the water comprises carbonated water.
8. A method of producing a wet concrete mix comprising combining hydraulic cement, water, and aggregate, wherein a portion of the aggregate is recycled concrete aggregate that has been exposed to carbon dioxide to carbonate the aggregate with the carbon dioxide; and either
(i) the water comprises carbonated water;
(ii) the concrete mix is exposed to carbon dioxide during mixing; or a combination of (i) and (ii).
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the water comprises carbonated water that comprises carbonated wash water.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein the water comprises 1-100% carbonated wash water.
11. The method of any of claim 8-11 wherein the concrete mix is exposed to carbon dioxide during mixing at a dose of 0.01-2% by weight cement (bwc).
12. The method of claim any of claims 8-12 wherein the carbon dioxide comprises carbon dioxide derived from flue gas from a power plant or a cement plant.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein the carbon dioxide comprises carbon dioxide derived from flue gas of a cement plant.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein carbon dioxide is delivered as liquid carbon dioxide that is converted to solid and gaseous carbon dioxide.
15. A system comprising
(i) a source of carbon dioxide operably connected to
(ii) a facility that comprises recycled concrete aggregates;
(iii) a system for delivering the carbon dioxide to the recycled concrete aggregates to carbonate the recycled concrete aggregates.
16. The system of claim 15 wherein the facility comprising recycled concrete aggregates produces at least a portion of the recycled concrete aggregates from used concrete.
17. The system of claim 15 or 16 wherein the source of carbon dioxide comprises a cement production facility or a power plant.
18. The system of claim 17 wherein the source of carbon dioxide comprises a cement production facility.
19. The system of any of claims 15-18 wherein the carbon dioxide at the source of carbon dioxide comprises gaseous carbon dioxide, and wherein the system further comprises a component to convert the gaseous carbon dioxide to liquid carbon dioxide.
20. The system of claim 19 further comprising a component to transport the liquid carbon dioxide to the facility for processing concrete.
21. The system of claim 20 wherein the component to transport the liquid carbon dioxide to the facility comprises a conduit suited to transport the liquid carbon dioxide.
22. The system of any of claims 15-21 wherein the facility comprising recycled concrete aggregates comprises coarse aggregates and fine aggregates, and the system for delivering carbon dioxide delivers carbon dioxide to the coarse aggregates and/or the fine aggregates to carbonate the coarse aggregates and/or the fine aggregates.
23. The system of any of claims 15-22 further comprising a concrete-producing facility and a component to deliver carbonated recycled concrete aggregates to the concrete-producing facility to be used in concrete mix produced at the facility.
24. The system of claim 23 wherein the concrete-producing facility is configured to deliver carbon dioxide to a wet concrete mix produced at the facility.
25. The system of claim 23 wherein the concrete-producing facility is configured to deliver mix water to a concrete mix wherein the mix water comprises carbonated mix water.
26. The system of claim 25 wherein the carbonated mix water comprises carbonated wash water.
27. The system of claim 26 wherein the concrete-producing facility comprises a component to carbonate wash water produced at the facility and to transport the carbonated wash water to a concrete mix produced at the facility.
28. A method comprising
(i) capturing carbon dioxide at a source of carbon dioxide;
(ii) converting the captured carbon dioxide into a form that can be transported if it is not already in such a form;
(iii) transporting the carbon dioxide to a facility that comprises recycled concrete aggregates;
(iv) exposing the recycled concrete aggregates to the transported carbon dioxide to produce carbonated recycled concrete aggregates.
29. The method of claim 28 wherein at least a portion of the recycled concrete aggregates at the facility are produced from used concrete at the facility.
30. The method of claim 28 or 29 wherein the source of carbon dioxide comprises a cement production facility or a power plant.
31. The method of claim 30 wherein the source of carbon dioxide comprises a cement production facility.
32. The method of any of claims 28-31 wherein step (ii) comprises converted gaseous carbon dioxide to liquid carbon dioxide.
33. The method of claim 32 further comprising transporting the liquid carbon dioxide to the facility comprising recycled concrete aggregates.
34. The method of any of claims 28-33 wherein the facility comprising recycled concrete aggregates produces at least a part of the recycled concrete aggregates from used concrete.
35. The method of claim 34 wherein the facility produces coarse aggregates and/or fine aggregates, and the method comprises delivering carbon dioxide to the coarse aggregates and/or the fine aggregates to carbonate the coarse aggregates and/or the fine aggregates.
36. The method of claim any of claims 28-35 further comprising mixing the carbonated recycled concrete aggregates with cement and water to produce a wet concrete mix.
37. The method of claim 36 further comprising delivering carbon dioxide to the wet concrete mix.
38. The method of any of claims 28-37 wherein the concrete mix and the carbonated recycled concrete aggregates are produced at the same facility.
39. The method of any of claims 28-37 wherein the carbonated recycled aggregates are produced at a first facility and are transported to a second facility where the wet concrete mix is produced.
40. The method of claim 37 wherein carbon dioxide is delivered to the wet concrete mix as a mixture of gaseous and solid carbon dioxide.
41. The method of any of claims 28-40 wherein the water used in the concrete mix comprises carbonated water.
42. The method of claim 41 further comprising carbonating water to produce the carbonated mix water.
43. The method of claim 42 wherein carbonating water comprises carbonating wash water produced at the facility and transporting the carbonated wash water to the concrete mix produced at the facility.
</claims>
</document>
