<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S15/18,G01S15/89,G01S7/52,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUALCOMM
</assignee>

<inventors>
DJORDJEV, KOSTADIN DIMITROV
LU, YIPENG
PANCHAWAGH, HRISHIKESH VIJAYKUMAR
STROHMANN, JESSICA LIU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70919246
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ULTRASONIC SENSOR ARRAY CONTROL TO FACILITATE SCREEN PROTECTORS
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for operating an ultrasonic sensor array, the ultrasonic sensor array disposed under a platen, include: making a determination whether or not to recalibrate the ultrasonic sensor array based on whether a first screen protector disposed above the platen has been removed or replaced by a second screen protector; and recalibrating the ultrasonic sensor array, when the determination is to recalibrate the ultrasonic sensor array. In some cases, the techniques include prompting a user to indicate whether or not the screen protector has been changed or removed, and recalibrating the ultrasonic sensor array only after confirmation from the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for operating an ultrasonic sensor array, the ultrasonic sensor array disposed under a platen, the method comprising: determining whether to recalibrate the ultrasonic sensor array based on whether a first screen protector disposed above the platen has been removed or replaced by a second screen protector ; and
recalibrating the ultrasonic sensor array, when the determination is to recalibrate the ultrasonic sensor array.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the determination is made by performing a background estimation process.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the background estimation process includes obtaining characteristics of an air image and comparing the obtained characteristics with characteristics of a baseline air image.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the baseline air image comprises an air image obtained by the ultrasonic sensor array operating without any screen protector.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising prompting a user to indicate whether the screen protector has been removed or replaced, and wherein the recalibrating the ultrasonic sensor array is performed only after confirmation from the user.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising mitigating effects of removal or replacement of the first screen protector by adjusting at least one sensor tuning offset.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the at least one sensor tuning offset includes one or more of range gate delay, frequency offset, time delay offset and phase correction offset.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the determination is made based on any one or more of: phase of received ultrasonic waves, platen temperature gradients, change of signalto-noise ratio (SNR) or image quality (IQ) vs range gate delay characteristics, change of SNR or IQ characteristics as a function of background calibration, or change in touchscreen capacitance.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising operating the ultrasonic sensor array with a modified sensor drive scheme, the modification configured to provide one or both of an increased duration transmit tone burst and a quasi-continuous wave transmit signal.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising operating the ultrasonic sensor array and processing image data using a point spread function (PSF) image reconstruction technique.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first screen protector or the second screen protector includes a multilayer stack having a thickness of approximately 0.75l or 1.25l, where l is a characteristic wavelength of an ultrasonic transmission produced by the ultrasonic sensor array.
12. An apparatus comprising a controller and an ultrasonic sensor array, the ultrasonic sensor array disposed under a platen, wherein the controller is configured to: make a determination whether to recalibrate the ultrasonic sensor array based on whether a first screen protector disposed above the platen has been removed or replaced by a second screen protector; and
recalibrate the ultrasonic sensor array, when the determination is to recalibrate the ultrasonic sensor array.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the controller is configured to make the determination by way of a background estimation process.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the background estimation process includes obtaining characteristics of an air image and comparing the obtained characteristics with characteristics of a baseline air image.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the baseline air image relates to an air image obtained by the ultrasonic sensor array when operated without any screen protector.
16. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the controller is further configured to prompt a user to indicate whether the first screen protector has been removed or replaced, and wherein the controller is configured to recalibrate the ultrasonic sensor array only after confirmation from the user.
17. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the controller is further configured to mitigate effects of removal or replacement of the first screen protector by way of an adjustment of at least one sensor tuning offset.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the at least one sensor tuning offset includes one or more of range gate delay, frequency offset, time delay offset and phase correction offset.
19. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein at least one of the first screen protector or the second screen protector includes a multilayer stack having a thickness of approximately 0.75l or 1.25l, where l is a characteristic wavelength of an ultrasonic transmission produced by the ultrasonic sensor array.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing program code to be executed by a controller of an ultrasonic sensor array, the ultrasonic sensor array disposed under a platen, the program code comprising instructions configured to cause the controller to: make a determination whether to recalibrate the ultrasonic sensor array based on whether a first screen protector disposed above the platen has been removed or replaced by a second screen protector; and
recalibrate the ultrasonic sensor array, when the determination is to recalibrate the ultrasonic sensor array.
21. The computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein the determination is made by performing a background estimation process.
22. The computer readable medium of claim 21 wherein the background estimation process includes obtaining characteristics of an air image and comparing the obtained characteristics with characteristics of a baseline air image.
23. The computer readable medium of claim 22, wherein the baseline air image relates to an air image obtained by the ultrasonic sensor array operating without any screen protector. 24. The computer readable medium of claim 20, the program code further comprising instructions configured to cause the controller to prompt a user to indicate whether the first screen protector has been removed or replaced, and to cause the controller to recalibrate the ultrasonic sensor array only after confirmation from the user.
25. The computer readable medium of claim 20, the program code further comprising instructions configured to cause the controller to mitigate effects of removal or replacement of the first screen protector by adjusting at least one sensor tuning offset.
26. The computer readable medium of claim 25, wherein the at least one sensor tuning offset includes one or more of adjusting range gate delay, frequency offset, time delay offset and phase correction offset.
27. The computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein the determination is made by assessing one more of: phase of received ultrasonic waves, platen temperature gradients, change of signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) or image quality (IQ) vs range gate delay characteristics, change of SNR or IQ characteristics as a function of background calibration, and change in touchscreen capacitance.
28. The computer readable medium of claim 20, the program code further comprising instructions configured to cause the controller to operate the ultrasonic sensor array with a modified sensor drive scheme, the modification configured to provide one or both of an increased duration transmit tone burst and a quasi-continuous wave transmit signal instead of pulse signals.
29. The computer readable medium of claim 20, the program code further comprising instructions configured to cause the controller to operate the ultrasonic sensor array and to process image data using a point spread function (PSF) image reconstruction technique.
30. The computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein at least one of the first screen protector or the second screen protector includes a multilayer stack having a thickness of approximately 0.75l or 1.25l, where l is a characteristic wavelength of an ultrasonic transmission produced by the ultrasonic sensor array.
31. An apparatus, comprising: an ultrasonic sensor array disposed under a platen;
first means for making a determination whether to recalibrate the ultrasonic sensor array based on whether a first screen protector disposed above the platen has been removed or replaced by a second screen protector; and
second means for recalibrating the ultrasonic sensor array, when the
determination is to recalibrate the ultrasonic sensor array.
32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the determination is made by performing a background estimation process.
33. The apparatus of claim 32 wherein the background estimation process includes obtaining characteristics of an air image and comparing the obtained characteristics with characteristics of a baseline air image.
34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the baseline air image relates to an air image obtained by the ultrasonic sensor array when operated without any screen protector.
35. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the determination is made by assessing one more of: phase of received ultrasonic waves, platen temperature gradients, change of signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) or image quality (IQ) vs range gate delay characteristics, change of SNR or IQ characteristics as a function of background calibration, and change in touchscreen capacitance.
36. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein at least one of the first screen protector or the second screen protector includes a multilayer stack having a thickness of approximately 0.75l or 1.25l, where l is a characteristic wavelength of an ultrasonic transmission produced by the ultrasonic sensor array.
</claims>
</document>
