<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/00,A61B34/10,A61F9/008,G16H20/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PATTON, DOUGLAS
</assignee>

<inventors>
PATTON, DOUGLAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73016965
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CLOUD BASED SYSTEM CATARACT TREATMENT DATABASE AND ALGORITHM SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, devices and methods are provided that provide assistance in selecting appropriate interventions for treatment of disease and injury to the eye. Systems of the inventive concept provide cloud-based processing and storage of clinical and patient-specific data, which can provide treatment recommendations and projected outcomes to a practitioner using a local device. Systems, devices, and methods can generate interactive physiomechanical models of the eye of a specified individual, which are derived measurements of mechanical properties of structures of the eye. The physiomechanical model is interactive, and can be used to emulate the effects of one or more medical interventions in the eye in order to implement an optimized treatment plan for the individual.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A system for assisting a user in performance of an ophthalmic surgery on an eye of a patient, comprising:
a user interface communicatively coupled to an input/output interface, and configured to communicate with a user device;
a database comprising a patient database, a clinical database, and a procedure database, wherein the database is communicatively coupled to the input/output interface, and
a processor communicatively coupled to the input/output interface and the database, wherein the processor comprises an algorithm providing a physiomechanical model of the eye or a portion of the eye,
wherein at least one of the input/output interface, the database, and the processor are cloud-based.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the input/output interface comprises a planning module.
3. The system of claim 1 or 2, wherein the input/output interface comprises a treatment
module.
4. The system of one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the database comprises a practitioner database.
5. The system of one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the database comprises an instrument database.
6. The system of one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the processor comprises a machine learning algorithm configured to correlate data from the clinical database with data from the patient database, and to provide a treatment recommendation via the input/output interface.
7. A method of assisting a user in performance of an ophthalmic surgery on an eye of a patient, comprising;
accessing planning module of an input/output interface that is communicatively coupled to a database and a processor, wherein the input/output interface comprises an algorithm assist, and wherein the database comprises a patient database, a clinical database, and a procedure database;
inputting a desired outcome from the ophthalmic surgery via the input/output interface; determining a recommended procedure using a machine learning algorithm of the
processor and data from the patient, clinical, and procedure databases; and transmitting the recommended procedure to the input/output interface,
wherein at least one of the input/output interface, the database, and the processor are cloud-based.
8. The method of claim 7, comprising generating a physiomechanical model of the eye or a portion thereof.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the desired outcome is inputted by interaction of the user with the physiomechanical model.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the recommended procedure is communicated to the user via the physiomechanical model.
11. The method of one of claims 7 to 10, wherein the database comprises a practitioner database, and wherein the recommended procedure is determined in part by data from the practitioner database.
12. The method of one of claims 7 to 11, wherein the database comprises an instrument database, and wherein the recommended procedure is determined in part by data from the instrument database.
13. The method of one of claims 7 to 12, comprising transmitting a probable outcome of the recommended procedure to the input/output interface.
14. The method of claim 13, comprising inputting a modification to the recommended procedure based on the probable outcome to generate revised procedure and a revised outcome, and transmitting the revised outcome to the input/output interface when the probable outcome is not acceptable.
15. A method of assisting a user in performance of an ophthalmic surgery on an eye of a patient, comprising:
physically characterizing the eye to determine at least a first density and at least a first dimension of a structure of the eye;
applying the determined density(ies) and dimension(s) to derive a physiomechanical model representative of the structure the eye or its anatomy;
receiving from the user a selection of a selected ophthalmic procedure;
applying the selected ophthalmic procedure to the physiomechanical model to predict an effect of applying the selected ophthalmic procedure to the structure of the eye; and
providing the user with a representation of the predicted effect of the selected ophthalmic procedure when applied to the structure of the eye,
wherein the physiomechanical model is derived from a mechanical property of the eye or a portion thereof within an anatomical context.
16. The method of claim 15, comprising applying the selected procedure to the eye.
17. The method of claim 15 or 16, wherein the representation of the predicted effect is derived from structural analysis of alteration of the mechanical property by the selected procedure.
18. The method of one of claims 15 to 17, wherein the representation of the predicated effect is derived from minimization of a calculated strain or static energy following application of the selected procedure, wherein the calculated strain or static energy is derived from the mechanical property.
19. The method of one of claims 15 to 18, wherein the representation of the predicated effect is derived from an analysis of the eye or the portion thereof as a flexible laminated structure following application of the selected procedure.
20. The method of one of claims 15 to 19, comprising acquiring additional ophthalmic data for use in generating the physiomechanical model, wherein such data is selected from the group consisting of corneal acoustic response or ultrasound data, topographic data, pachymetric data, elevation data, corneal thickness data, corneal curvature data, wave front data, intraocular pressure data, peripheral stromal thickness data, patient age, patient gender, duration of contact lens use, prior surgical intervention, response to prior surgical intervention, and yield point of a cornea.
21. The method of one of claims 15 to 20, further comprising:
modifying the selected ophthalmic procedure to generate a modified ophthalmic
procedure; and
using the physiomechanical model to predict a second predicted effect resulting from applying the modified ophthalmic procedure to the eye.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the second predicted effect on the structure of the eye provides a modified eye structure, and wherein calculated physical characteristics of the modified eye structure are utilized to generate a second physiomechanical model representative of the modified eye structure.
23. A laser system comprising:
a femtosecond laser for delivering a femtosecond laser beam to an eye;
a modeling system comprising a modeling engine and a patient data base; the patient data base configured to receive a determined density characterization of a structure of the eye and a determined dimensional characterization of the structure of the eye; and
a graphic user interface (GUI), configured to receive an input from a user and display an output from the modeling system; the input comprising a selected procedure, wherein the modeling system is configured to:
derive a physiomechanical model representation of the structure of the eye based upon the determined density characterization of the structure of the eye received by the patient data base, the determined dimensional characterization of the structure of the eye received by the patient data base, or both;
receive from the GUI the selected procedure;
apply the selected procedure to the physiomechanical model representation and
thereby derive a predicted effect of the selected procedure on the structure of the eye; and, provide a representation of the predicted effect to the GUI.
24. The system of claim 23, comprising a phacoemulsification system.
25. The systems of claim 23 or 24, wherein the selected procedure is a limbus relaxing incision.
26. The systems of claim 23 or 24, wherein the selected procedure is a micro-incision in a cornea.
</claims>
</document>
