<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B8/08,A61B8/14,G01N29/06,G01N29/42
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
QUEENS UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABOLMAESUMI, PURANG
MOUSAVI, PARVIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69886869
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ULTRASONIC ANALYSIS OF A SUBJECT
</title>

<abstract>
A method of facilitating ultrasonic analysis of a subject is provided. The method involves producing signals for causing a set of outgoing ultrasonic signals to be transmitted to the subject, wherein the set of outgoing ultrasonic signals is defined at least in part by a variable imaging parameter that varies over time in accordance with a variable imaging parameter function, the variable imaging parameter function represented or representable at least in part by a function characteristic, receiving signals representing a time dependent representation of the subject generated from a set of received ultrasonic signals scattered by the subject, determining at least one property representation of the subject based on the function characteristic and the time dependent representation of the subject, and producing signals representing the at least one property representation of the subject to facilitate analysis of the subject. Systems, non-transitory computer readable media, and other methods are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of facilitating ultrasonic analysis of a subject, the method comprising: producing signals for causing a set of outgoing ultrasonic signals to be transmitted to the subject, wherein the set of outgoing ultrasonic signals is defined at least in part by a variable imaging parameter that varies over time in accordance with a variable imaging parameter function, the variable imaging parameter function represented or representable at least in part by a function characteristic; receiving signals representing a time dependent representation of the subject generated from a set of received ultrasonic signals scattered by the subject; determining at least one property representation of the subject based on the function characteristic and the time dependent representation of the subject; and producing signals representing the at least one property representation of the subject to facilitate analysis of the subject.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the set of outgoing ultrasonic signals is a temporally ordered set of outgoing ultrasonic signals and wherein the variable imaging parameter varies over the temporally ordered set of outgoing ultrasonic signals.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein the set of outgoing ultrasonic signals includes at least one ultrasonic beam and wherein producing the signals for causing the set of outgoing ultrasonic signals to be transmitted to the subject comprises producing signals for causing the at least one ultrasonic beam to be transmitted to the subject, said at least one ultrasonic beam defined at least in part by the variable imaging parameter.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the variable imaging parameter is a focal depth of the at least one ultrasonic beam and wherein producing the signals for causing the at least one ultrasonic beam to be transmitted to the subject comprises producing signals for causing the focal depth of the at least one ultrasonic beam to vary over time according to the variable imaging parameter function.
5. The method of any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the variable imaging parameter function includes a periodic function that varies over time at an imaging parameter frequency and wherein the function characteristic includes the imaging parameter frequency.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein determining the at least one property representation of the subject comprises applying a band-pass filter to the time dependent representation of the subject, the band-pass filter configured to pass the imaging parameter frequency.
7. The method of claim 5 or 6 wherein determining the at least one property representation of the subject comprises applying a discrete Fourier transform to the time dependent representation of the subject to determine one or more imaging parameter frequency components, each of the one or more imaging parameter frequency components associated with the imaging parameter frequency.
8. The method of claim 7 further comprising, for each of the one or more imaging parameter frequency components, applying at least one anomaly criterion to the imaging parameter frequency component to determine whether the imaging parameter frequency component indicates presence of an anomaly in the subject.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein applying the at least one anomaly criterion comprises determining whether the imaging parameter frequency component is outside of a predetermined normal range.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein producing the signals representing the at least one property representation of the subject comprises producing signals for causing at least one display to display a representation of the subject including indicators identifying the one or more imaging parameter frequency components determined to be outside of the predetermined normal range.
11. The method of claim 7 wherein producing the signals representing the at least one property representation of the subject comprises producing signals for causing at least one display to display a representation of the one or more imaging parameter frequency components.
12. The method of claim any one of claims 5 to 11 wherein: the periodic function is a first periodic function and the imaging parameter frequency is a first imaging parameter frequency; the variable imaging parameter function includes a second periodic function that varies over time at a second imaging parameter frequency, different from the first imaging parameter frequency, such that the variable imaging parameter function is represented or representable at least in part by the second imaging parameter frequency; and determining the at least one property representation of the subject based on the function characteristic and the time dependent representation of the subject comprises determining the at least one property representation of the subject based on the first imaging parameter frequency, the second imaging parameter frequency, and the time dependent representation of the subject.
13. The method of any one of claims 1 to 12 wherein: the set of outgoing ultrasonic signals is a first set of outgoing ultrasonic signals; the variable imaging parameter is a first variable imaging parameter; the variable imaging parameter function is a first variable imaging parameter function; the function characteristic is a first function characteristic; the method further comprises: producing signals for causing a second set of outgoing ultrasonic signals to be transmitted to the subject, wherein the second set of outgoing ultrasonic signals is defined at least in part by a second variable imaging parameter that varies over time in accordance with a second variable imaging parameter function, the second variable imaging parameter function represented or representable at least in part by a second function characteristic; and receiving signals representing a second time dependent representation of the subject generated from a second set of received ultrasonic signals scattered by the subject; and determining the at least one property representation of the subject comprises determining the at least one property representation of the subject based on the first function characteristic, the second function characteristic, and the time dependent representation of the subject.
14. The method of any one of claims 1 to 13 wherein the subject is a composite material.
15. A system for facilitating ultrasonic analysis of a subject comprising at least one processor configured to perform the method of any one of claims 1 to 14.
16. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon codes which when executed by at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform the method of any one of claims 1 to 14.
</claims>
</document>
