<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61F2/70,A61H1/02,B25J9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BISHOP, JOSHUA
JOHNSON THEODORE
MOLINARO, DEAN
YOUNG, AARON
CSOMAY-SHANKLIN, Noel
KANWAR, Bharat
MEDITZ, Jonathan
YANG, Avery
LI, Jared
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73050633
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EXOSUIT SUPPORT SYSTEMS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
An exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides an exosuit support system, comprising first and second orthotic interfaces, first and second members, and first and second actuators. The first and second orthotic interfaces can be configured to attach to left and right legs of a user, respectively. The first member can comprise a first end connected to the first orthotic interface and a second end connected to a portion of the system configured to be positioned proximate a right shoulder of the user. The second member can comprise a first end connected to the second orthotic interface and a second end connected to a portion of the system configured to be positioned proximate a left shoulder of the user. The first actuator can be configured to apply a first tension to the first member. The second actuator can be configured to apply a second tension to the second member.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. An exosuit support system, comprising:
a first orthotic interface configured to attach to a left leg of a user;
a second orthotic interface configured to attach to a right leg of a user;
a first member comprising a first end connected to the first orthotic interface and a second end connected to a portion of the system configured to be positioned proximate a right shoulder of the user;
a second member comprising a first end connected to the second orthotic interface and a second end connected to a portion of the system configured to be positioned proximate a left shoulder of the user;
a first actuator configured to apply a first tension to the first member; and
a second actuator configured to apply a second tension to the second member.
2. The exosuit support system of claim 1, further comprising a controller configured to control actuation of the first and second actuators.
3. The exosuit support system of claim 1, wherein the first tension is less than or greater than the second tension.
4. The exosuit support system of claim 1, wherein the first tension is equal to the second tension.
5. The exosuit support system of claim 2, wherein the controller is further configured to detect a magnitude of a load carried to the user and vary at least one of the first and second tensions in response to the magnitude.
6. The exosuit support system of claim 2, wherein the controller is further configured to actuate at least one of the first and second actuators to vary at least one of the first and second tensions during a movement by the user.
7. The exosuit support system of claim 2, wherein the controller is further configured to monitor movement of the user to determine times to start and stop application of the first and second tensions.
8. The exosuit support system of claim 2, further comprising one or more sensors, each of the one or more sensors configured to monitor a condition and generate an output to the controller indicative of the monitored condition.
9. The exosuit support system of claim 8, wherein the one or more sensors comprises at least one inertial measurement unit configured to measure an angular position, velocity, and acceleration of the user's torso.
10. The exosuit support system of claim 8, wherein the one or more sensors comprises at least one encoder configured to measure a rotation of the first and/or second actuators.
11. The exosuit support system of claim 8, wherein the one or more sensors comprises an electromyography (EMG) sensor configured to monitor signals from muscles of the user.
12. The exosuit support system of claim 8, wherein the one or more sensors comprises a sensor configured to monitor a magnitude the first tension and a second sensor configured to monitor a magnitude of the second tension, and wherein the controller is configured to cause the first actuator to maintain the magnitude of the first tension when the magnitude of the first tension reaches a first level determined by the controller, and wherein the controller is further configured to cause the second actuator to maintain the magnitude of the second tension when the magnitude of the second tension reaches a second level determined by the controller.
13. The exosuit support system of claim 8, wherein the controller is configured to cause the first and second actuators to vary the first and second tensions, respectively, based at least in part on a predetermined force profile, a biological profile, or a profile based on measured muscle activations from electromyography.
14. The exosuit support system of claim 2, wherein the controller is configured to operate in a zero impedance mode in which the first and second actuators follow the user during movement.
15. The exosuit support system of claim 1, wherein the first orthotic interface is configured to attach to a left thigh of the user and the second orthotic interface is configured to attach to a right thigh of the user.
16. The exosuit support system of claim 1, wherein the first member comprises a first cable and the second member comprises a second cable.
17. The exosuit support system of claim 1, wherein the first actuator comprises a first gear driven pulley and the second actuator comprises a second gear driven pulley.
18. The exosuit support system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first member and the second member comprises a mechanical hard stop to cease actuation of at least one of the first and second actuators.
19. The exosuit support system of claim 2, further comprising a power supply configured to supply electrical power to the first actuator, second actuator, and controller.
20. The exosuit support system of claim 1, wherein the first actuator is positioned about the first orthotic interface and the second actuator is positioned about the second orthotic interface.
21. An exosuit support system, comprising:
a first orthotic interface configured to attach to a left thigh of a user, the first orthotic interface comprising a pulley actuator;
a second orthotic interface configured to attach to a right thigh of the user, the second orthotic interface comprising a second pulley actuator;
a first member comprising a first end connected to the first actuator and a second end connected to a portion of the system configured to be positioned proximate a right shoulder of the user; a second member comprising a first end connected to the second actuator and a second end connected to a portion of the system configured to be positioned proximate a left shoulder of the user; and
a controller, the controller comprising a processor and memory, the memory comprising instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the system to:
actuate the first actuator to vary a first tension of the first member; and actuate the second actuator to vary a second tension of the second member.
22. The exosuit support system of claim 21, further comprising a plurality of sensors configured to monitor conditions of the user and generate outputs to the controller indicative of the monitored conditions, and
wherein the controller further comprises instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the system to actuate the first and second actuators to vary the first and second tensions, respectively, based on the outputs received from the plurality of sensors.
</claims>
</document>
