<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EVERSEEN
</assignee>

<inventors>
O'HERLIHY, ALAN
PESCARU, DAN
ARION, ALEXANDRU
ALLEN, Joe
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70154838
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISTRIBUTED LOGBOOK FOR ANOMALY MONITORING
</title>

<abstract>
A system for anomaly monitoring in a pre-defined environment includes one or more image capturing devices configured to capture one or more images of the pre-defined environment in real-time, a process detecting component configured to detect one or more target processes based on captured image data, each target process representing a sequence of user activities in the pre-defined environment, a blockchain unit configured to store the one or more target processes and a reference process in form of a private distributed logbook, wherein each of the target processes and the reference process include a series of process transactions, wherein each process transaction is stored in an encrypted form in the blockchain unit, and an analysis unit communicatively coupled to the blockchain unit, and configured to analyse the private distributed logbook by comparing each target process with the reference process to determine one or more anomalies therein.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for anomaly monitoring in a pre-defined environment, the system comprising:
one or more image capturing devices configured to capture one or more images, of the pre-defined environment in real-time;
a process detecting component configured to detect one or more target processes based on data captured by the one or more image capturing devices, each target process representing a sequence of user activities in the pre-defined environment;
a blockchain unit configured to store the one or more target processes and a reference process in form of a private distributed logbook, wherein each of the target processes and the reference process include a series of process transactions, wherein each process transaction is stored in an encrypted form in the blockchain unit; and an analysis unit communicatively coupled to the blockchain unit, and configured to analyse the private distributed logbook by comparing each target process with the reference process to determine one or more anomalies therein and transmit an alert message to report the one or more anomalies to a user.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein one or more process transactions are posted by one or more billing machines, one or more warehouse monitoring systems, one or more cost analysis systems, or one or more Self check out stores (SCOs).
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the analysis unit includes a central processing unit (CPU), a memory, and an operation panel.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein an encrypted transaction includes a transaction type, a link to a previous transaction, an encrypted metadata, and a transaction hash, wherein the transaction hash is a result of a cryptographic operation of hashing applied to a combined string of the transaction type, the link to the previous transaction and the encrypted metadata.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the reference process represents a process developed and implemented as standard by corresponding business and is designed to achieve a predefined level of performance and value to the business.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein each target process is analysed in a reverse order with respect to the reference process to find a deviation therein, wherein a current process transaction of a target process is compared with a current process transaction of the reference process, when a previous process transaction of the target process matches with a previous process transaction of the reference process.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein for each target process, the blockchain unit is configured to obtain a token from a governing authority once for each instance of a process, use the token along with transactions of a corresponding target process, and link a chain of transactions and provide an ability to pinpoint each instance of the process.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the process detecting component comprises:
a set of detectors and integrators for processing the one or more captured images to detect one or more equipment, one or more actions, one or more objects, and one or more users in the pre-defined environment;
a data source integration and aggregation component configured to aggregate and integrate processed image and video data with Internet of Things (IoT) devices, Point of Sale (PoS) systems, and Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems for extracting and interpreting one or more user activities spanning over a predefined interval;
a process sensing component configured to generate one or more continuous processes based on aggregated and integrated information; and
a process aggregator and weighing component configured to aggregate one or more continuous processes into a merged weighted process, and to perform process model extraction, virtualized process modelling, and anomalies detection.
9. A method for anomaly monitoring in a pre-defined environment, the method comprising:
capturing one or more images of the pre-defined environment in real-time; detecting one or more target processes based on data captured by the one or more image capturing devices, each target process representing a sequence of user activities in the pre-defined environment;
storing the one or more target processes and a reference process in form of a private distributed logbook, wherein each of the target processes and the reference process include a series of process transactions, wherein each process transaction is stored in an encrypted form in a blockchain unit; and analysing the private distributed logbook by comparing each target process with the reference process to determine one or more anomalies therein and transmit an alert message to report the one or more anomalies to a user.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein one or more process transactions are posted by one or more billing machines, one or more warehouse monitoring systems, one or more cost analysis systems, or one or more Self check out stores (SCOs).
11. The method of claim 9, wherein an encrypted transaction includes a transaction type, a link to a previous transaction, an encrypted metadata, and a transaction hash, wherein the transaction hash is a result of a cryptographic operation of hashing applied to a combined string of the transaction type, the link to the previous transaction and the encrypted metadata.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the reference process represents a process developed and implemented as standard by corresponding business and is designed to achieve a predefined level of performance and value to the business.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein each target process is analysed in a reverse order with respect to the reference process to find a deviation therein, wherein a current process transaction of a target process is compared with a current process transaction of the reference process, when a previous process transaction of the target process matches with a previous process transaction of the reference process.
14. The method of claim 9 further comprising obtaining a token from a governing authority for each target process once for each instance of a process, using the token along with transactions of a corresponding target process, linking the token a chain of transactions and providing ability to pinpoint each instance of the process.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the detecting one or more target processes comprises: detecting one or more equipment, one or more actions, one or more objects, and one or more users in the pre-defined environment;
aggregating and integrating processed image and video data with Internet of Things (IoT) devices, Point of Sale (PoS) systems, and Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems for extracting and interpreting one or more user activities spanning over a predefined interval; generating one or more continuous processes based on aggregated and integrated information; and aggregating one or more continuous processes into a merged weighted process, and to perform process model extraction, virtualized process modelling and anomalies detection.
16. A computer programmable product for anomaly monitoring in a pre-defined environment, the computer programmable product comprising a set of instructions, the set of instructions when executed by a processor causes the processor to:
capture one or more images of the pre-defined environment in real-time;
detect one or more target processes based on data captured by the one or more image capturing devices, each target process representing a sequence of user activities in the pre-defined environment;
store the one or more target processes and a reference process in form of a private distributed logbook, wherein each of the target processes and the reference process include a series of process transactions, wherein each process transaction is stored in an encrypted form in a blockchain unit; and
analyse the private distributed logbook by comparing each target process with the reference process to determine one or more anomalies therein and transmit an alert message to report the one or more anomalies to a user.
17. The computer programmable product of claim 16, wherein an encrypted transaction includes a transaction type, a link to a previous transaction, an encrypted metadata, and a transaction hash, wherein the transaction hash is a result of a cryptographic operation of hashing applied to a combined string of the transaction type, the link to the previous transaction and the encrypted metadata.
18. The computer programmable product of claim 16, wherein the reference process represents a process developed and implemented as standard by corresponding business and is designed to achieve a predefined level of performance and value to the business.
19. The computer programmable product of claim 16, wherein each target process is analysed in a reverse order with respect to the reference process to find a deviation therein, wherein a current process transaction of a target process is compared with a current process transaction of the reference process, when a previous process transaction of the target process matches with a previous process transaction of the reference process.
20. The computer programmable product of claim 16, wherein the set of instructions when executed by a processor further causes the processor to obtain a token from a governing authority for each target process once for each instance of a process, to use the token along with transactions of a corresponding target process, to link the token with a chain of transactions and provide ability to pinpoint each instance of the process.
</claims>
</document>
