<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06N3/02,G16H10/60,G16H50/20,G16H80/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARDIAI TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAPOOR, ANMOL SINGH
KOUL, RAMAN
WANG, GANG
BHINDER, SIDHARTH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69721884
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HEALTH MONITORING SYSTEM HAVING PORTABLE HEALTH MONITORING DEVICES AND METHOD THEREFOR
</title>

<abstract>
A health-monitoring system and method use artificial intelligence for monitoring patient health based data acquired from one or more health-monitoring data-sources. The health-monitoring data-sources may include one or more wearable devices, one or more portable health-monitoring devices and other data sources. The health-monitoring system may use artificial intelligence to analyze acquired health data and physiological measurements for monitoring patient health.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A network system for monitoring health conditions of one or more patients, the system comprising:
one or more health-monitoring data sources for acquiring health-related data of the one or more patients, said one or more data sources comprising at least one personalized health monitoring device;
one or more first client-computing devices associated with and used by the one or more patients;
one or more second client-computing devices associated with and used by one or more health professionals;
one or more server computers;
a secured database; and
a network functionally coupled to the one or more health-monitoring data sources, the one or more first client-computing devices, the one or more second client-computing devices, the one or more server computers, and the secured database;
wherein the one or more first client-computing devices, the one or more second client computing devices, and the one or more server computers are configured for:
collecting health-related data acquired by the one or more health-monitoring data sources;
storing the collected health-related data in the secured database as electronic medical records (EMRs);
automatically analyzing the collected health-related data and assessing the health conditions of the one or more patients using an artificial intelligence (AI) platform for obtaining health-analysis results and health and medical advices;
based on the obtained health-analysis results and assessed health conditions, directing each of the one or more patients for one of managing their health conditions at home, visiting a clinic for health management, and visiting a hospital or emergency room for health management; and
updating the EMRs.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more first client-computing devices, the one or more second client-computing devices, and the one or more server computers are further configured for:
receiving input from the one or more second client-computing devices; and revising the obtained health-analysis results and health and medical advices based the received input.
3. The system of claim 1 or 2, wherein the one or more first client-computing devices, the one or more second client-computing devices, and the one or more server computers are further configured for:
storing a portion of the EMRs into a personal-data database of each of the one or more first client-computing devices, the portion of the EMRs being related to the patient associated with said first client-computing device.
4. The system of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein each of the one or more first clientcomputing devices comprises a first live-chat module, and each the one or more second clientcomputing devices comprising a second live-chat module; and wherein the first and second livechat modules are communicative with each other via the network.
5. The system of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the AI platform is configured for using a neural network to process and analyze the collected health-related data.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the collected health-related data comprises a personalized health questionnaire.
7. The system of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the AI platform is configured for monitoring physical activity and physiological health indicators of at least one of a heart rate, a heart rhythm, a blood pressure, a breathing pattern, a blood glucose level, and a blood oxygen saturation.
8. The system of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the AI platform is configured for one or more of evaluating the medical conditions of the one or more patients, providing medical diagnoses thereto, providing health management thereto, providing medical advices thereto, and communicating the health or medical information thereof to one or more health professionals and/or emergency-response professionals, based on the analysis of the collected health-related data and assessment of the health conditions of the one or more patients.
9. The system of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the at least one personalized health monitoring device each comprises a portable reader and a cartridge for receiving and analyzing samples of bodily fluids and/or tissue if a respective one of the one or more patients.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the cartridge comprises a nanostructured sensing surface for collecting and amplifying a biomolecular binding-signal of said samples of bodily fluids and/or tissue.
11. A method for monitoring health conditions of one or more patients, the method comprising:
collecting health-related data of the one or more patients from one or more health monitoring data sources, said one or more data sources comprising at least one personalized health-monitoring device;
storing the collected health-related data in a secured database as electronic medical records (EMRs);
automatically analyzing the collected health-related data and assessing the health conditions of the one or more patients using an artificial intelligence (AI) platform for obtaining health-analysis results and health and medical advices;
based on the obtained health-analysis results and assessed health conditions, directing each of the one or more patients for one of managing their health conditions at home, visiting a clinic for health management, and visiting a hospital or emergency room for health management; and updating the EMRs.
12. The method of claim 11 further comprising:
receiving input from the one or more second client-computing devices; and
revising the obtained health-analysis results and health and medical advices based the received input.
13. The method of claim 11 or 12 further comprising:
storing a portion of the EMRs into a personal-data database of each of the one or more first client-computing devices, the portion of the EMRs being related to the patient associated with said first client-computing device.
14. The method of any one of claims 11 to 13 further comprising:
providing a first live-chat module to each of the one or more patients; providing a second live-chat module to each of one or more health professionals; and establishing communication between at least one of the first live-chat modules and at least one of the second live-chat modules via a network.
15. The method of any one of claims 11 to 14 further comprising:
using a neural network in the AI platform to process and analyze the collected healthrelated data.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the collected health-related data comprises a personalized health questionnaire.
17. The method of any one of claims 11 to 14 further comprising:
using the AI platform for monitoring physical activity and physiological health indicators of at least one of a heart rate, a heart rhythm, a blood pressure, a breathing pahem, a blood glucose level, and a blood oxygen saturation.
18. The method of any one of claims 11 to 17, wherein the AI platform is configured for one or more of evaluating the medical conditions of the one or more patients, providing medical diagnoses thereto, providing health management thereto, providing medical advices thereto, and communicating the health or medical information thereof to one or more health professionals and/or emergency-response professionals, based on the analysis of the collected health-related data and assessment of the health conditions of the one or more patients.
19. The method of any one of claims 11 to 18, wherein the at least one personalized healthmonitoring device each comprises a portable reader and a cartridge for receiving and analyzing samples of bodily fluids and/or tissue if a respective one of the one or more patients; and
wherein said collecting the health-related data comprises:
receiving the samples of bodily fluids and/or tissue using the cartridge;
analyzing the received samples of bodily fluids and/or tissue using the portable reader; and collecting the health-related data from the portable reader.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the cartridge comprises a nanostructured sensing surface for collecting and amplifying a biomolecular binding-signal of said samples of bodily fluids and/or tissue.
</claims>
</document>
