<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L25/497
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOYDIS, JAKOB
AIT AOUDIA, FAYCAL
STARK, Maximilian
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67137942
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TRANSMITTER ALGORITHM
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus, method and computer program is described comprising means for using a transmitter algorithm to convert one or more inputs at a transmitter of a transmission system into one or more data symbols, wherein: the transmission system comprises the transmitter implementing said transmitter algorithm, a channel and a receiver including a receiver algorithm; the transmitter algorithm comprises trainable parameters for converting one or more received data symbols into one or more outputs; and the transmitter algorithm is stochastic.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising means for using a transmitter algorithm to convert one or more inputs at a transmitter of a transmission system into one or more data symbols, wherein:
the transmission system comprises the transmitter implementing said transmitter algorithm, a channel and a receiver including a receiver algorithm;
the transmitter algorithm comprises trainable parameters for converting one or more received data symbols into one or more outputs; and
the transmitter algorithm is stochastic.
2. An apparatus as claimed in claim l, further comprising means for generating updated parameters of the transmission system in order to maximise an information transfer rate.
3. An apparatus comprising:
means for initialising trainable parameters of a transmission system, wherein the transmission system comprises a transmitter, a channel and a receiver, wherein the transmitter includes a transmitter algorithm for converting one or more inputs into one or more data symbols and the receiver algorithm includes a receiver algorithm for converting one or more received data symbols into one or more outputs, wherein the transmitter algorithm is stochastic;
means for generating updated parameters of the transmission system in order to maximise an information transfer rate, wherein generating updated parameters of the transmission system includes updating trainable parameters of the transmitter algorithm; and
means for repeating the generating updated parameters of the transmission system until a first condition is reached. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein said means for initialising the trainable parameters of the transmission system initialises said trainable parameters randomly.
5. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the means for generating updated parameters of the transmission system is configured to generate said parameters in order to minimise a divergence between a distribution function defining a probability that individual data symbols are output by the transmitter algorithm and a target distribution.
6. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 5, further comprising means for generating a loss function, wherein the means for generating updated parameters of the transmission system is configured to minimise said loss function.
7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6, further comprising:
means for generating one or more data symbols for transmission from said transmitter to said receiver;
means for observing channel outputs at said receiver in response to
transmitting said data symbols; and
means for minimising said loss function on the basis of said observed channel outputs.
8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7, wherein the loss function is based on a first variable minus a second variable, wherein the first variable comprises a/the divergence between a distribution function defining a probability that individual data symbols are output by the transmitter algorithm and a target distribution and the second variable comprises the information transfer rate.
9. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claim 2 to 8, wherein the information transfer rate is based on the sum of mutual information between the one or more inputs and an output of the channel.
10. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 9, wherein generating updated parameters of the transmission system comprise updating the parameters of the transmitter algorithm. 11. An apparatus as claimed in any one of the claims 2 to 10, wherein the receiver algorithm includes trainable parameters.
12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11, wherein generating updated parameters of the transmission system comprises updating the parameters of both the transmitter algorithm and the receiver algorithm.
13. An apparatus as claimed in any one claims 2 to 12, wherein said means for generating updated parameters of the transmission system updates said parameters using stochastic gradient descent. 14. An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the one or more inputs are outputs of a channel encoder of the transmitter.
15. An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said data symbols correspond to constellation positions of a modulation scheme implemented by a modulator of said transmitter.
16. An apparatus as claimed in claim 15 when dependent on any one of claims 2 to
14, wherein generating updated parameters of the transmission system comprises generating updated parameters of said modulator.
17. An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the receiver algorithm further comprises means for estimating the one or more inputs.
18. An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the transmitter comprises a transmitter neural network configured to implement said transmitter algorithm.
19. An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the receiver comprises a receiver neural network configured to implement said receiver algorithm.
20. An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the means comprise:
at least one processor; and
at least one memoiy including computer program code, the at least one memory and the computer program configured, with the at least one processor, to cause the performance of the apparatus.
21. A method comprising using a transmitter algorithm to convert one or more inputs at a transmitter of a transmission system into one or more data symbols, wherein: the transmission system comprises the transmitter implementing said transmitter algorithm, a channel and a receiver including a receiver algorithm;
the transmitter algorithm comprises trainable parameters for converting one or more received data symbols into one or more outputs; and
the transmitter algorithm is stochastic.
22. A method comprising:
initialising trainable parameters of a transmission system, wherein the transmission system comprises a transmitter, a channel and a receiver, wherein the transmitter includes a transmitter algorithm for converting one or more inputs into one or more data symbols and the receiver algorithm includes a receiver algorithm for converting one or more received data symbols into one or more outputs, wherein the transmitter algorithm is stochastic;
generating updated parameters of the transmission system in order to maximise an information transfer rate, wherein generating updated parameters of the
transmission system includes updating trainable parameters of the transmitter algorithm; and
repeating the generating updated parameters of the transmission system until a first condition is reached.
23. A computer program comprising instructions for causing an apparatus use a transmitter algorithm to convert one or more inputs at a transmitter of a transmission system into one or more data symbols, wherein:
the transmission system comprises the transmitter implementing said transmitter algorithm, a channel and a receiver including a receiver algorithm;
the transmitter algorithm comprises trainable parameters for converting one or more received data symbols into one or more outputs; and
the transmitter algorithm is stochastic. 24. A computer program comprising instructions for causing an apparatus to perform at least the following:
initialise trainable parameters of a transmission system, wherein the transmission system comprises a transmitter, a channel and a receiver, wherein the transmitter includes a transmitter algorithm for converting one or more inputs into one or more data symbols and the receiver algorithm includes a receiver algorithm for converting one or more received data symbols into one or more outputs, wherein the transmitter algorithm is stochastic;
generate updated parameters of the transmission system in order to maximise an information transfer rate, wherein generating updated parameters of the transmission system includes updating trainable parameters of the transmitter algorithm; and
repeat the generating updated parameters of the transmission system until a first condition is reached.
</claims>
</document>
