<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G11C11/4091,G11C11/4094,G11C11/4096,G11C7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KARNIK, TANAY
SUBRAMONEY SREENIVAS
GAUR, JAYESH
VAIDYANATHAN, KAUSHIK
LIU, HUICHU
SHUKLA, Sudhanshu
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74043141
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HIGH BANDWIDTH DESTRUCTIVE READ EMBEDDED MEMORY
</title>

<abstract>
Described are mechanisms and methods for amortizing the cost of address decode, row-decode and wordline firing across multiple read accesses (instead of just on one read access). Some or all memory locations that share a wordline (WL) may be read, by walking through column multiplexor addresses (instead of just reading out one column multiplexor address per WL fire or memory access). The mechanisms and methods disclosed herein may advantageously enable N distinct memory words to be read out if the array uses an N-to-1 column multiplexor. Since memories such as embedded DRAMs (eDRAMs) may undergo a destructive read, for a given WL fire, a design may be disposed to sense N distinct memory words and restore them in order.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. An apparatus comprising:
a first circuitry to store a set of a number N bits of data in a memory and provide the set of N bits of stored data to a set of N bitline signal paths;
a second circuitry to route one of the set of N bitline signal paths to a multiplexed bitline signal path based on a value on a selection input; and
a third circuitry to sense a value on the multiplexed bitline signal path, to amplify the sensed value, and to route the amplified value to a sense-amplified bit signal path.
2. The apparatus of claim 1,
wherein the second circuitry is operable to route a series of the set of N bitline signal paths to the multiplexed bitline signal path on the basis of a series of values on the selection input within a single bitline precharge cycle.
3. The apparatus of claim 1,
wherein the memory comprises a destructive-read memory.
4. The apparatus of claim 3,
wherein the destructive-read memory includes one of: an embedded Dynamic
Random Access Memory (eDRAM); or a non-volatile memory.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sense-amplified bit signal path is a first senseamplified bit signal path, comprising:
a fourth circuitry to sense a value on the first sense-amplified bit signal path, to
amplify the sensed value, and to route the amplified value to a second senseamplified bit signal path.
6. The apparatus of claim 1,
wherein the first circuitry is to store a plurality of sets of N bits of data and provide the plurality of sets of N bits of data, respectively, to a plurality of sets of N bitline signal paths; wherein the second circuitry is to route one of each of the sets of N bitline signal paths, respectively, to a plurality of multiplexed bitline signal paths on the basis of the selection input; and
wherein the third circuitry is to sense a plurality of values, respectively, on the
plurality of multiplexed bitline signal paths; to amplify the plurality of values; and to route the plurality of amplified values, respectively, to a plurality of senseamplified bit signal paths.
7. The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 6,
wherein N is a power of 2.
8. The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 6,
wherein the first circuitry comprises a column multiplexor circuitry.
9. The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 6,
wherein the third circuitry comprises a local sense amplifier circuitry.
10. An apparatus comprising:
a multiplexor circuitry to route one of a set of N bitline signal paths from a memory circuitry to a multiplexed bitline signal path based on a value on a selection input; a first sense amplifier circuitry to sense a value on the multiplexed bitline signal path, to amplify the sensed value, and to route the amplified value to a first senseamplified bit signal path; and
a second sense amplifier circuitry to sense a value on the first sense-amplified bit signal path, to amplify the sensed value, and to route the amplified value to a second sense-amplified bit signal path.
11. The apparatus of claim 10,
wherein the first sense amplifier is operable to route a series of the set of N bitline signal paths to the multiplexed bitline signal path on the basis of a series of values on the selection input within a single bitline precharge cycle.
12. The apparatus of claim 10,
wherein the memory comprises a destructive-read memory that includes one of: an embedded Dynamic Random Access Memory (eDRAM); or a non-volatile memory.
13. The apparatus of claim 10, comprising:
a memory circuitry to store the set of N bits of data and provide the set of N bits of stored data to the set of N bitline outputs;
14. The apparatus of claim 10,
wherein the multiplexor circuitry is to route one of each of a plurality of sets of N bitline signal paths, respectively, to a plurality of multiplexed bitline signal paths on the basis of the selection input; and
wherein the sense amplifier circuitry is to sense a plurality of values, respectively, on the plurality of multiplexed bitline signal paths; to amplify the plurality of values; and to route the plurality of amplified values, respectively, to a plurality of senseamplified bit signal paths.
15. The apparatus according to any one of claims 10 to 14,
wherein N is a power of 2.
16. The apparatus according to any one of claims 10 to 14,
wherein the multiplexor circuitry comprises a column multiplexor circuitry;
wherein the first sense amplifier circuitry comprises a local sense amplifier circuitry; and
wherein the second sense amplifier circuitry comprises a global sense amplifier
circuitry.
17. A system comprising a memory, a processor coupled to the memory, and a wireless interface for allowing the processor to communicate with another device, the processor including and apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 9.
18. A system comprising a memory, a processor coupled to the memory, and a wireless interface for allowing the processor to communicate with another device, the processor including and apparatus according to any one of claims 10 to 16.
19. A method comprising:
storing a set of a number N bits of data in a memory and provide the set of N bits of stored data to a set of N bitline signal paths;
routing one of the set of N bitline signal paths to a multiplexed bitline signal path based on a value on a selection input; and
sensing a value on the multiplexed bitline signal path, to amplify the sensed value, and to route the amplified value to a senseamplified bit signal path.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein routing the series of the set of N bitline signal paths to the multiplexed bitline signal path is on the basis of a series of values on the selection input within a single bitline precharge cycle.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein the memory comprises a destructive-read memory.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the destructive-read memory includes one of: an
embedded Dynamic Random Access Memory (eDRAM); or a non-volatile memory.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein the senseamplified bit signal path is a first senseamplified bit signal path, comprising:
sensing a value on the first senseamplified bit signal path, to amplify the sensed value, and to route the amplified value to a second sense-amplified bit signal path.
24. The method according to any one of claims 21 to 23,
wherein N is a power of 2.
25. The method according to any one of claims 21 to 23,
wherein the first circuitry comprises a column multiplexor circuitry; and
wherein the third circuitry comprises a local sense amplifier circuitry.
</claims>
</document>
