<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61F2/14,A63H3/40,G06F3/01,G09B23/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SZTUK, SEBASTIAN
LAYON HALUN, Antonio Yamil
BURGESS, Kirk Erik
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71083785
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MECHANICAL EYEBALL FOR ANIMATRONIC DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
An animatronic device includes a mechanical eyeball configured to rotate about a first rotational axis and a second rotational axis that intersect at a fixed center point. A controller is configured to generate eye movement instructions that cause the animatronic device to rotate the mechanical eyeball about at least one of the first rotational axis and the second rotational axis. The eye movement instructions are generated based on an eye tracking system used to track movement of an eye of a user. The controller maps the tracked eye movement to movement of the mechanical eyeball and generates eye movement instructions based on the mapping.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising:
a controller configured to generate eye movement instructions; and
an animatronic device comprising a mechanical eyeball configured to rotate about a center point in accordance with eye movement instructions, the mechanical eyeball having a first rotational axis and a second rotational axis that both intersect at the center point.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to:
receive, from an eye tracking system, tracked eye movement of an eye of a user; map the tracked eye movement to movement of the mechanical eyeball; and generate the instructions based on the mapping.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the animatronic device further comprises an additional mechanical eyeball and the controller is further configured to:
receive, from an eye tracking system, tracked eye movement of a first eye and a second eye of a user;
map the tracked eye movement of the first eye of the user to movement of the
mechanical eyeball and the tracked eye movement of the second eye of the user to movement of the additional mechanical eyeball;
generate synched instructions for the mechanical eyeball and the additional mechanical eyeball based on the mapping of the first eye movement and the second eye movement.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to:
provide, to the animatronic device, a set of instructions including a test movement pattern;
receive, from an eye tracking system, tracked eye movement of the mechanical
eyeball executing the test movement pattern; and
determine values for one or more metrics describing performance of eye tracking system based in part on the tracked eye movement.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the animatronic device is further configured to:
actuate a first driver and a second driver based on the instructions, the first driver configured to cause the mechanical eyeball to rotate about the second rotational axis and the second driver configured to cause the mechanical eyeball to rotate about the first rotational axis.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the animatronic device is further configured to:
measure, using one or more sensors, one or more rotated encoder values that each correspond to an amount of rotation of a first encoder bar and a second encoder bar about the first rotational axis and the second rotational axis; and, optionally wherein the controller is further configured to:
determine one or more predicted encoder values that each correspond to an amount of rotation of the mechanical eyeball about the center point about one or more of the first rotational axis and the second rotational axis; and compare the one or more predicted encoder values to the one or more rotated encoder values; and, optionally further
wherein responsive to a difference between the one or more predicted encoder values and the one or more rotated encoder values exceeding a threshold, the controller is further configured to:
generate updated instructions that cause the animatronic device to rotate the mechanical eyeball about one or more of the first rotational axis and the second rotational axis; and
provide the updated instructions to the animatronic device
7. An animatronic device comprising:
a first mechanical eyeball configured to rotate about a center point, wherein a first rotational axis of the first mechanical eyeball and a second rotational axis of the first mechanical eyeball intersect at the center point, and wherein the animatronic device is configured to actuate rotation of the first mechanical eyeball about one or more of a first rotational axis and a second rotational axis based on instructions provided by a controller.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein actuating rotation of the first mechanical eyeball comprises:
actuating one or more of a first driver and a second driver, the first driver configured to cause the first mechanical eyeball to rotate about the second rotational axis and the second driver configured to cause the first mechanical eyeball to rotate about the first rotational axis; and, optionally wherein the first driver and the second driver are actuated at different velocities.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the animatronic device is further configured to:
receive, from the controller, a test movement pattern; and
actuate the first mechanical eyeball based on a test movement pattern, wherein an eye tracking system is configured to monitor movement of the first mechanical eyeball.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein the first mechanical eyeball comprises:
a first encoder bar configured to rotate about the second rotational axis, the first
encoder bar including a first encoding strip, and
a second encoder bar configured to rotate about the first rotational axis, the second encoder bar including a second encoding strip.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the animatronic device further comprises:
one or more sensors configured to measure an amount of rotation of the first encoder bar and the second encoder bar about one or more of the first rotational axis and the second rotational axis.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions are generated based on one or more predicted encoder values that each correspond to an amount of rotation of the mechanical eyeball about the center point about one or more of the first rotational axis and the second rotational axis; and, optionally wherein the animatronic device is trained using a machine learning model based on the one or more predicted encoder values and one or more rotated encoder values measured by the one or more sensors.
13. The system of claim 7, wherein the instructions are generated based on eye movement of a user tracked by an eye tracking system.
14. The system of claim 7, wherein the first mechanical eyeball comprises an image sensor, and wherein the image sensor coincides with an optical axis of the first mechanical eyeball.
15. The system of claim 7, wherein the animatronic device further comprises a second mechanical eyeball and wherein animatronic device is configured to actuate the first mechanical eyeball and the second mechanical eyeball simultaneously responsive to synched instructions generated by the controller; and, optionally wherein the synched instructions are generated based on rotation of a first eye of a user and a second eye of a user measured by an eye tracking system.
</claims>
</document>
