<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/02,G06N3/04,G06T7/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OPTIMUM SEMICONDUCTOR TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
GLOSSNER, JOHN
IANCU, SABIN DANIEL
LI, KEYI
MURPHY, SAMANTHA
WANG BEINAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72240089
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR FOG DETECTION AND VEHICLE LIGHT CONTROL
</title>

<abstract>
An intelligent light system installed on a motor vehicle includes a light source to provide illumination for the motor vehicle, wherein a wavelength of a light beam generated by the light source is adjustable, a plurality of sensors for capturing sensor data of an environment surrounding the motor vehicle, and a processing device to receive the sensor data captured by the plurality of sensors, provide the sensor data to a neural network to determine a first state of the environment, and issue a control signal to adjust the wavelength of the light beam based on the determined first state of the environment.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. An intelligent light system installed on a motor vehicle, comprising:
a light source to provide illumination for the motor vehicle, wherein a wavelength of a light beam generated by the light source is adjustable;
a plurality of sensors for capturing sensor data of an environment surrounding the motor vehicle; and
a processing device, communicatively coupled to the plurality of sensors and the light source, to:
receive the sensor data captured by the plurality of sensors; provide the sensor data to a neural network to determine a first state of the environment; and
issue a control signal to adjust the wavelength of the light beam based on the determined first state of the environment.
2. The intelligent light system of claim 1, wherein the light source is one of a headlight or a fog light of the motor vehicle, wherein the one of the headlight or the fog light comprises one or more LED light emitters.
3. The intelligent light system of claim 1 or 2, wherein the plurality of sensors comprise a plurality of image sensors that are mounted on the motor vehicle to capture at least one image of a front view, a back view, or a side view of the motor vehicle, and wherein the plurality of sensors comprise a global positioning system (GPS) sensor to provide a location of the motor vehicle.
4. The intelligent light system of claim 3, wherein to determine a first state of the environment surrounding the motor vehicle, the processing device is further to:
determine a fog condition surrounding the motor vehicle;
determine a driving mode of the motor vehicle, wherein the driving mode comprises a driver mode and a self-driving mode;
determine a time mode, wherein the time mode comprises a daylight mode and a night mode; and determine the first state based on at least one of the determined fog condition, the determined driving mode, or the time mode.
5. The intelligent light system of claim 4, wherein the fog condition comprises a fog-free condition, a light fog condition, and a heavy fog condition.
6. The intelligent light system of claim 5, wherein to determine the first state of the environment, the processing device is further to:
receive the at least one image captured by the plurality of image sensors;
convert the at least one image to a grey-scale image;
decimate the grey-scale image from a first spatial resolution to a second spatial resolution; and
apply the neural network to the decimated grey-scale image to determine the first state of the environment.
7. The intelligent light system of claim 6, wherein the processing device is further to:
determine, using a decision tree, the wavelength of the light beam generated by the light source based on the determined first state of the environment; and
generate and issue the control signal based on the wavelength.
8. The intelligent light system of claim 7, wherein the processing device is further to:
provide a GPS signal to a weather service provider;
receive, from the weather service provider, the fog condition determined based on the location of the motor vehicle determined using the GPS signal; and
determine the first state based on the fog condition.
9. The intelligent light system of claim 7, further comprising:
a decoder circuit to receive the control signal and decode the control signal into one or more current intensity values; and
a driver circuit to generate one or more currents based on the one or more current intensity values, and to drive the one or more LED light emitters.
10. The intelligent light system of claim 7, further comprising: a decoder circuit to receive the control signal and decode the control signal into a current intensity value;
a driver circuit to generate a current based on the current intensity value; and a switch circuit to receive the current and selectively supply the current, based on a switch control signal, to one of a plurality of output pins, wherein the switch control signal is determined by the first state, and each one of the plurality of output pins is connected to a respective LED emitter for emitting an LED light of a corresponding wavelength.
11. The intelligent light system of claim 1, wherein responsive to detecting that the motor vehicle moves to a second location, the processing device is to:
receive second sensor data captured by the plurality of sensors;
provide the sensor data to the neural network to determine a second state of the environment at the second location; and
issue a second control signal to adjust the wavelength of the light beam based on the determined second state of the environment.
12. A method for operating an intelligent light system installed on a motor vehicle, the method comprising:
receiving sensor data captured by a plurality of sensors for sensing an environment surrounding the motor vehicle;
providing, by a processing device, the sensor data to a neural network to determine a first state of the environment; and
issuing, based on the determined first state of the environment, a control signal to adjust a wavelength of a light beam generated by a light source installed on the motor vehicle for providing illumination.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the light source is one of a headlight or a fog light of the motor vehicle, wherein the one of the headlight or the fog light comprises one or more LED light emitters.
14. The method of claim 12 or 13, wherein the plurality of sensors comprise a plurality of image sensors that are mounted on the motor vehicle to capture at least one image of a front view, a back view, or a side view of the motor vehicle, and wherein the plurality of sensors comprise a global positioning system (GPS) sensor to provide a location of the motor vehicle.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein determining a first state of the environment comprises:
determining a fog condition surrounding the motor vehicle, wherein the fog condition comprises a fog-free condition, a light fog condition, and a heavy fog condition;
determining a driving mode of the motor vehicle, wherein the driving mode comprises a driver mode and a self-driving mode;
determining a time mode, wherein the time mode comprises a daylight mode and a night mode; and
determining the first state based on at least one of the determined fog condition, the determined driving mode, or the time mode.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein determining a first state of the environment comprises:
receiving the at least one image captured by the plurality of image sensors; converting the at least one image to a grey-scale image;
decimating the grey-scale image from a first spatial resolution to a second spatial resolution; and
applying the neural network to the decimated greyscale image to determine the first state of the environment.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
determining, using a decision tree, the wavelength of the light beam generated by the light source based on the determined first state of the environment; and
generating and issuing the control signal based on the wavelength.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising:
decoding, by a decoder circuit, the control signal into one or more current intensity values;
generating, by a driver circuit, one or more currents based on the one or more current intensity values; and providing the one or more currents to drive the one or more LED light emitters.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising:
decoding, by a decoder circuit, the control signal into a current intensity value; generating, by a driver circuit, a current based on the current intensity value; and receiving, by a switch circuit, the current and selectively supply the current, based on a switch control signal, to one of a plurality of output pins, wherein the switch control signal is determined by the first stage, and each one of the plurality of output pins is connected to a respective LED emitter for emitting an LED light of a corresponding wavelength.
20. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium storing instructions which, when executed, cause a processing device to operations of an intelligent light system installed on a motor vehicle, the operations comprising:
receiving sensor data captured by a plurality of sensors for sensing an environment surrounding the motor vehicle;
providing, by a processing device, the sensor data to a neural network to determine a first state of the environment; and
issuing, based on the determined first state of the environment, a control signal to adjust a wavelength of a light beam generated by a light source installed on the motor vehicle for providing illumination.
</claims>
</document>
