<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C11/02,G01C21/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MARTIN, DAVID
GOOGLE
KLINGNER, Bryan
ROSEBOROUGH, James Brian
DIKOV, Veselin
ARFVIDSSON, Joakim Kristian Olle
</assignee>

<inventors>
MARTIN, DAVID
KLINGNER, Bryan
ROSEBOROUGH, James Brian
DIKOV, Veselin
ARFVIDSSON, Joakim Kristian Olle
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67297340
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WORLDWIDE COORDINATE FRAME DEFINED BY DATA SET CORRESPONDENCES
</title>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising:
one or more processors; and
one or more non-transitory computer-readable media that collectively store:
a geodetic datum that provides coordinates respectively for a plurality of objects located on at least a portion of a surface of the Earth, wherein the coordinates provided by the geodetic datum for the plurality of objects are independent of an
approximation of a shape of the surface of the Earth; and
instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing system to perform operations, the operations comprising providing at least a portion of the geodetic datum for use in determining a relative location of one of the plurality of objects or an additional object.
2. The computing system of any preceding claim, wherein the geodetic datum has been produced through joint alignment of multiple geographic datasets.
3. The computing system of claim 2, wherein the multiple geographic datasets comprise at least two different geographic datasets comprising at least two different modalities of geographic data.
4. The computing system of any preceding claim, wherein the coordinates provided by the geodetic datum for the plurality of objects are permitted to change over time as additional geographic datasets are aligned with the geodetic datum.
5. The computing system of any preceding claim, wherein providing at least the portion of the geodetic datum comprises providing at least the portion of the geodetic datum for use in determining the relative location of the additional object relative to at least one of the plurality of objects, wherein the additional object comprises a user device associated with a user.
6. A computer-implemented method for generating a geodetic datum for a portion of Earth, the method comprising:
obtaining, by one or more computing devices, a set of datum coordinates derived from a reference dataset comprising geographic data corresponding to a first part of the portion of Earth;
obtaining, by the one or more computing devices, a second dataset containing sensor data corresponding to a second part of the portion of Earth, wherein the second part of the portion of the Earth at least partially overlaps with the first part of the portion of Earth;
determining, by the one or more computing devices, a set of correspondences between the reference dataset and the second dataset;
determining, by the one or more computing devices, a set of transform coordinates for the second dataset based at least in part on the set of correspondences; and updating, by the one or more computing devices, the set of datum coordinates to include the set of transform coordinates.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein determining, by the one or more computing devices, a set of transform coordinates for the second dataset based at least in part on the set of correspondences comprises:
calculating, by the one or more computing devices, a transform field based in part on the set of correspondences; and
determining, by the one or more computing devices, the set of transform coordinates for the second dataset by applying the transform field to at least a portion of the second dataset.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the reference dataset and the second dataset respectively comprise sensor data from at least two different sensor modalities.
9. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 6-8, wherein the reference dataset includes three-dimensional satellite imagery, aerial imagery, or both, and the second dataset includes ground-level imagery.
10. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 6-9, further comprising updating, by the one or more computing devices, the reference dataset to include a subset of the points in the second dataset that have been mapped using the transform field.
11. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 6-10, further comprising creating, by the one or more computing devices, a snapshot, wherein the snapshot includes a time-referenced representation of the geodetic datum.
12. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 6-11, wherein determining, by the one or more computing devices, a set of correspondences comprises:
determining, by the one or more computing device, a locus;
processing, by the one or more computing devices, imagery included in the reference dataset associated with the locus to create a plurality of reference shards;
processing, by the one or more computing devices, imagery included the second dataset associated with the locus to create a plurality of second shards;
calculating, by the one or more computing devices, an alignment based at least in part by comparing at least one reference shard to at least one second shard.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein calculating, by the one or more computing devices, the alignment comprises:
selecting, by the one or more computing devices, an aspect of one reference shard; and
triangulating, by the one or more computing devices, the aspect to one or more of the second shards.
14. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 6-13, wherein the geodetic datum demonstrates a relative accuracy of about 0.5 cm to about 10 cm per 300 m in all directions.
15. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 6-14, wherein the sensor data comprises one or more of: colored images, video, and light detection and ranging data.
16. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 6-15, further comprising transmitting a data packet including information from the geodetic datum to a user device.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the information included in the data packet comprises geolocalized feature data usable to determine a location of the user device relative to the feature data.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the information included in the data packet comprises position information that assigns a reference position to the user device and a relative position for objects within a radius from the reference position.
19. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 17 or 18, wherein the user device is configured to display an augmented reality layer based in part on the data packet.
20. A computing system configured to generate a geodetic datum for a portion of Earth, the computing system comprising:
one or more processors;
one or more non-transitory computer-readable media that collectively store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors cause the computing system to perform operations, the operations comprising:
obtaining a set of datum coordinates derived from a reference dataset comprising geographic data corresponding to a first part of the portion of Earth;
obtaining a second dataset containing sensor data corresponding to a second part of the portion of Earth, wherein the second part of the portion of the Earth at least partially overlaps with the first part of the portion of the Earth;
determining a set of correspondences between the reference dataset and the second dataset;
determining a set of transform coordinates for the second dataset based at least in part on the set of correspondences; and
updating the set of datum coordinates to include the set of transform coordinates.
21. The computing system of claim 20, wherein the computing system is configured to operate according to an application programming interface (API) that enables a user device to access the geodetic datum or information associated with the geodetic datum using standardized communications.
22. The computing system of claim 21, further comprising transmitting a data packet including information associated with the geodetic datum to the user device using the API.
23. The computing system of claim 22, wherein the information included in the data packet comprises position information that assigns a reference position to the user device and a relative position for objects within a radius from the reference position.
24. The computing system of claim 23, wherein respective relative positions of objects within about 300 m of the user device demonstrate a position accuracy of about 0.5 cm to about 10 cm.
25. The computing system of any one of claims 22-24, wherein the information associated with the geodetic datum includes an epoch, and wherein the epoch is associated with a time-referenced representation of the reference dataset.
26. One or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media storing computerreadable instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising:
obtaining a set of datum coordinates derived from a reference dataset comprising geographic data corresponding to a first part of a portion of Earth;
obtaining a second dataset containing sensor data corresponding to a second part of the portion of Earth, wherein the second part of the portion of the Earth at least partially overlaps with the first part of the portion of the Earth;
determining a set of correspondences between the reference dataset and the second dataset;
determining a set of transform coordinates for the second dataset based at least in part on the set of correspondences; and
updating the set of datum coordinates to include the set of transform coordinates.
</claims>
</document>
