<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B1/05,A61B17/42,A61B6/00,G06F3/14,G06N3/02,G16H30/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOVADAQ TECHNOLOGIES ULC
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAILEY, ARTHUR E.
GUREVICH, LINA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102853
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PERSISTENT URETER VISUALIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
Two imaging modalities are used to image a tissue of a subject. A fluorescence imaging agent is administered. A first imaging modality, such as white light imaging, continuously images a tissue of a subject such as an ureter. A second imaging modality, such as fluorescence imaging, periodically images a feature of the tissue. During periods when the second imaging modality is imaging the feature, the first and second imaging modality image frames are displayed together and stored together in memory. During periods when the second imaging modality is not imaging the feature but the first imaging modality continues to image the tissue, second imaging modality frames are retrieved from the memory and displayed together with newly acquired first imaging modality frames. Thus, the feature of the tissue can be persistently displayed to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for visualizing tissue of a subject, the method comprising:
receiving a first series of first imaging modality frames generated by imaging a region of tissue of the subject according to a first imaging modality, and a first series of second imaging modality frames generated by imaging the region of tissue of the subject according to a second imaging modality;
displaying the first series of first imaging modality frames in combination with the first series of second imaging modality frames;
storing a plurality of first imaging modality frames of the first series of first image modality frames and a plurality of second imaging modality frames of the first series of second imaging modality frames in a memory;
receiving a second series of first imaging modality frames generated by imaging the region of tissue of the subject according to the first imaging modality; and
displaying the second series of first imaging modality frames in combination with one or more second imaging modality frames that are associated with the first series of second imaging modality frames for visualizing the region of tissue of the subject.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting a frame of the plurality of second imaging modality frames stored in the memory for display in combination with a frame of the second series of first imaging modality frames based on a similarity between the frame of the second series of first imaging modality frames and a frame of the plurality of first imaging modality frames stored in the memory that is associated with the frame of the plurality of second imaging modality frames stored in the memory.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein selecting the frame of the plurality of second imaging modality frames comprises calculating a similarity score for the frame of the second series of first imaging modality frames and the frame of the plurality of first imaging modality frames stored in the memory.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein selecting the frame of the plurality of second imaging modality frames comprises determining that the similarity score is above a
predetermined threshold.
5. The method of claim 3 or claim 4, wherein selecting the frame of the plurality of second imaging modality frames comprises determining that the similarity score is greater than similarity scores for other frame of the plurality of first imaging modality frames stored in the memory.
6. The method of any one of claims 3-5, wherein an attribute of a display of the selected frame of the plurality of second imaging modality frames stored in the memory in combination with the frame of the second series of first imaging modality frames is based on the similarity score.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the attribute comprises at least one of increasing an area of fluorescence and altering a color scheme based on the similarity score.
8. The method of any one of claims 3-7, wherein the similarity score is a structural similarity metric, a mutual information metric, or a combination thereof.
9. The method of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the second imaging modality is fluorescence imaging and the method further comprises ceasing to store second imaging modality frames in the memory based on a level of fluorescence intensity dropping below a threshold.
10. The method of claim 9, comprising, after ceasing to store second imaging modality frames in the memory, storing a second series of second imaging modality frames in the memory in response to an increase in a level of fluorescence intensity.
11. The method of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the first series of second imaging modality frames comprises an image of a tissue feature that is not visible in the first series of first imaging modality frames.
12. The method of any one of claims 1-11, wherein the first imaging modality comprises visible light imaging and second imaging modality comprises fluorescence imaging.
13. The method of any one of claims 1-12, wherein the second imaging modality comprises fluorescence imaging and the method further comprises:
receiving a third series of first imaging modality frames and a second series of second imaging modality frames; and
storing a first frame of the third series of first imaging modality frames in place of a first frame of the first series of first imaging modality frames in the memory based on a level of fluorescence intensity of a first frame of the second series of second imaging modality frames that is associated with the first frame of the third series of first imaging modality frames.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising storing the first frame of the second series of second imaging modality frames in place of a first frame of the first series of second imaging modality frames in the memory.
15. The method of any one of claims 1-14, wherein the second imaging modality comprises imaging of an imaging agent and the method further comprises administering the imaging agent to the subject so that the imaging agent enters the region of tissue of the subject.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the imaging agent is a fluorescence imaging agent and the tissue of the region of tissue of the subject comprises a ureter.
17. The method of claim 15 or claim 16, wherein the region of tissue of the subject comprises a ureter and the imaging agent is excretable in urine.
18. The method of any one of claims 15-17, wherein the imaging agent comprises at least one of methylene blue, phenylxanthenes, phenothiazines, phenoselenazines, cyanines, indocyanines, squaraines, dipyrrolo pyrimidones, anthraquinones, tetracenes, quinolines, pyrazines, acridines, acridones, phenanthridines, azo dyes, rhodamines, phenoxazines, azulenes, azaazulenes, triphenyl methane dyes, indoles, benzoindoles, indocarbocyanines, benzoindocarbocyanines, derivatives having the general structure of 4,4-difluoro-4-bora-3a,4adiaza-s-indacene, and conjugates thereof and derivatives thereof.
19. The method of any one of claims 1-18, wherein the second imaging modality comprises imaging an imaging agent and at least a portion of the imaging agent is carried by urine transiting through a ureter.
20. The method of any one of claims 1-19, comprising illuminating the region of tissue of the subject with visible light and fluorescence excitation light.
21. The method of any one of claims 1-20, wherein the first series of first imaging modality frames and the first series of second imaging modality frames are generated using a single imaging sensor.
22. The method of any one of claims 1-21, wherein the first series of first imaging modality frames and the first series of second imaging modality frames are generated using multiple imaging sensors.
23. The method of any one of claims 1-22, wherein the first series of first imaging modality frames are white light frames.
24. The method of any one of claims 1-23, wherein displaying the second series of first imaging modality frames in combination with one or more second imaging modality frames that are associated with the first series of second imaging modality frames comprises displaying an overlay image, side-by-side images, or a picture-in-picture image.
25. The method of any one of claims 1-24, wherein the first series of first imaging modality frames is generated synchronously with the first series of second imaging modality frames.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the first series of first imaging modality frames is generated simultaneously with the first series of second imaging modality frames.
27. The method of any one of claims 1-26, wherein the first and second series of first imaging modality frames are displayed during a surgical procedure on the subject.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the surgical procedure is an abdominal or pelvic surgical procedure.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the abdominal or pelvic surgical procedure comprises at least one of total or partial hysterectomy, oophorectomy, tubal ligation, surgical removal of ovarian cysts, anterior repair of the vaginal wall, caesarean section, repair of a pelvic prolapse, pelvic mass resection, removal of a fallopian tube, adnexectomy, removal of an ectopic pregnancy, vasectomy, prostatectomy, hernia repair surgery, colectomy,
cholecystectomy, appendectomy, hepatobiliary surgery, splenectomy, distal or total pancreatectomy, the Whipple procedure, and abdominal or pelvic lymphadenectomy.
30. The method of any one of claims 27-29, wherein the first and second series of first imaging modality frames are displayed in real time.
31. The method of any one of claims 1-30, wherein the first series of first imaging modality frames and the first series of second imaging modality frames are received from an imager.
32. The method of any one of claims 1-31, wherein the first series of first imaging modality frames and the first series of second imaging modality frames are received from a memory.
33. The method of any one of claims 1 and 9-32, further comprising generating the one or more second imaging modality frames that are associated with the first series of second imaging modality frames by processing at least a portion of the first series of first imaging modality frames by a trained learning machine.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein the trained learning machine was trained on imaging data not associated with the subject.
35. The method of claim 33 or claim 34, wherein the trained learning machine is based on a conditional Generative Adversarial Network.
36. A system for visualizing tissue of a subject, the system comprising:
a display;
one or more processors;
memory; and
one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including instructions for:
receiving a first series of first imaging modality frames generated by imaging a region of tissue of the subject according to a first imaging modality, and a first series of second imaging modality frames generated by imaging the region of tissue of the subject according to a second imaging modality;
displaying the first series of first imaging modality frames in combination with the first series of second imaging modality frames on the display;
storing a plurality of first imaging modality frames of the first series of first image modality frames and a plurality of second imaging modality frames of the first series of second imaging modality frames in the memory;
receiving a second series of first imaging modality frames generated by imaging the region of tissue of the subject according to the first imaging modality; and
displaying, on the display, the second series of first imaging modality frames in combination with one or more second imaging modality frames that are associated with the first series of second imaging modality frames for visualizing the region of tissue of the subject.
37. The system of claim 36, further comprising a light source for providing visible illumination light and fluorescence excitation light to the region of tissue of the subject.
38. The system of claim 36 or claim 37, further comprising an imager for generating the first series of first imaging modality frames and the first series of second imaging modality frames.
39. The system of any one of claims 36-38, wherein the one or more programs include further instructions for selecting a frame of the plurality of second imaging modality frames stored in the memory for display in combination with a frame of the second series of first imaging modality frames based on a similarity between the frame of the second series of first imaging modality frames and a frame of the plurality of first imaging modality frames stored in the memory that is associated with the frame of the plurality of second imaging modality frames stored in the memory.
40. The system of claim 39, wherein selecting the frame of the plurality of second imaging modality frames comprises calculating a similarity score for the frame of the second series of first imaging modality frames and the frame of the plurality of first imaging modality frames stored in the memory.
41. The system of claim 40, wherein selecting the frame of the plurality of second imaging modality frames comprises determining that the similarity score is above a
predetermined threshold.
42. The system of claim 40 or claim 41, wherein selecting the frame of the plurality of second imaging modality frames comprises determining that the similarity score is greater than similarity scores for other frame of the plurality of first imaging modality frames stored in the memory.
43. The system of any one of claims 40-42, wherein an attribute of a display of the selected frame of the plurality of second imaging modality frames stored in the memory in combination with the frame of the second series of first imaging modality frames is based on the similarity score.
44. The system of claim 43, wherein the attribute comprises at least one of increasing an area of fluorescence and altering a color scheme based on the similarity score.
45. The system of any one of claims 40-44, wherein the similarity score is a structural similarity metric, a mutual information metric, or a combination thereof.
46. The system of any one of claims 36-45, wherein the second imaging modality is fluorescence imaging and the one or more programs include further instructions for ceasing to store second imaging modality frames in the memory based on a level of fluorescence intensity dropping below a threshold.
47. The system of claim 46, wherein the one or more programs include further instructions for, after ceasing to store second imaging modality frames in the memory, storing a second series of second imaging modality frames in the memory in response to an increase in a level of fluorescence intensity.
48. The system of any one of claims 36-47, wherein the first series of second imaging modality frames comprises an image of a tissue feature that is not visible in the first series of first imaging modality frames.
49. The system of any one of claims 36-48, wherein the first imaging modality comprises visible light imaging and second imaging modality comprises fluorescence imaging.
50. The system of any one of claims 36-49, wherein the second imaging modality comprises fluorescence imaging and the one or more programs include further instructions for: receiving a third series of first imaging modality frames and a second series of second imaging modality frames; and
storing a first frame of the third series of first imaging modality frames in place of a first frame of the first series of first imaging modality frames in the memory based on a level of fluorescence intensity of a first frame of the second series of second imaging modality frames that is associated with the first frame of the third series of first imaging modality frames.
51. The system of claim 50, wherein the one or more programs include further instructions for storing the first frame of the second series of second imaging modality frames in place of a first frame of the first series of second imaging modality frames in the memory.
52. The system of any one of claims 36-51, wherein the second imaging modality comprises imaging of an imaging agent and the one or more programs include further instructions for administering the imaging agent to the subject so that the imaging agent enters the region of tissue of the subject.
53. The system of claim 52, wherein the imaging agent is a fluorescence imaging agent and the tissue of the region of tissue of the subject comprises a ureter.
54. The system of claim 52 or claim 53, wherein the region of tissue of the subject comprises a ureter and the imaging agent is excretable in urine.
55. The system of any one of claims 52-54, wherein the imaging agent comprises at least one of methylene blue, phenylxanthenes, phenothiazines, phenoselenazines, cyanines, indocyanines, squaraines, dipyrrolo pyrimidones, anthraquinones, tetracenes, quinolines, pyrazines, acridines, acridones, phenanthridines, azo dyes, rhodamines, phenoxazines, azulenes, azaazulenes, triphenyl methane dyes, indoles, benzoindoles, indocarbocyanines, benzoindocarbocyanines, derivatives having the general structure of 4,4-difluoro-4-bora-3a,4adiaza-s-indacene, and conjugates thereof and derivatives thereof .
56. The system of any one of claims 36-55, wherein the second imaging modality comprises imaging an imaging agent and at least a portion of the imaging agent is carried by urine transiting through a ureter.
57. The system of any one of claims 36-56, wherein the one or more programs include further instructions for illuminating the region of tissue of the subject with visible light and fluorescence excitation light.
58. The system of any one of claims 36-57, wherein the first series of first imaging modality frames and the first series of second imaging modality frames are generated using a single imaging sensor.
59. The system of any one of claims 36-58, wherein the first series of first imaging modality frames and the first series of second imaging modality frames are generated using multiple imaging sensors.
60. The system of any one of claims 36-59, wherein the first series of first imaging modality frames are white light frames.
61. The system of any one of claims 36-60, wherein displaying the second series of first imaging modality frames in combination with one or more second imaging modality frames that are associated with the first series of second imaging modality frames comprises displaying an overlay image, side-by-side images, or a picture-in-picture image.
62. The system of any one of claims 36-61, wherein the first series of first imaging modality frames is generated synchronously with the first series of second imaging modality frames.
63. The system of claim 62, wherein the first series of first imaging modality frames is generated simultaneously with the first series of second imaging modality frames.
64. The system of any one of claims 36-63, wherein the first and second series of first imaging modality frames are displayed during a surgical procedure on the subject.
65. The system of claim 64, wherein the surgical procedure is an abdominal or pelvic surgical procedure.
66. The system of claim 65, wherein the abdominal or pelvic surgical procedure comprises at least one of total or partial hysterectomy, oophorectomy, tubal ligation, surgical removal of ovarian cysts, anterior repair of the vaginal wall, caesarean section, repair of a pelvic prolapse, pelvic mass resection, removal of a fallopian tube, adnexectomy, removal of an ectopic pregnancy, vasectomy, prostatectomy, hernia repair surgery, colectomy, cholecystectomy, appendectomy, hepatobiliary surgery, splenectomy, distal or total pancreatectomy, the Whipple procedure, and abdominal or pelvic lymphadenectomy .
67. The system of claim 64 or claim 65, wherein the first and second series of first imaging modality frames are displayed in real time.
68. The system of any one of claims 36-67, wherein the first series of first imaging modality frames and the first series of second imaging modality frames are received from an imager.
69. The system of any one of claims 36-68, wherein the first series of first imaging modality frames and the first series of second imaging modality frames are received from a memory.
70. The system of any one of claims 36 and 46-69, wherein the one or more programs include further instructions for generating the one or more second imaging modality frames that are associated with the first series of second imaging modality frames by processing at least a portion of the first series of first imaging modality frames by a trained learning machine.
71. The system of claim 70, wherein the trained learning machine was trained on imaging data not associated with the subject.
72. The system of claim 71, wherein the trained learning machine is based on a conditional Generative Adversarial Network.
73. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs for execution by one or more processors of a system for visualizing tissue of a subject, the one or more programs comprising instructions for performing any one of the methods of claims 1-35.
74. A kit for imaging tissue, the kit comprising a fluorescence imaging agent and the system of any one of claims 36-72.
75. A fluorescence imaging agent for use in method of any one of claims 1-35 for imaging tissue.
76. The fluorescence imaging agent of claim 75, wherein imaging tissue comprises imaging tissue during a laparoscopic procedure.
77. Use of the method of any one of claims 1-35 for ureter imaging.
</claims>
</document>
