<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B01D17/028,B81B1/00,C12M1/26,C12M1/36,C12M3/06,G01N1/28,G01N1/36,G01N33/48
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JHU (JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG, TZA-HUEI
KAUSHIK, Aniruddha
O'KEEFE, Christine
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74101140
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMMOBILIZATION AND QUANTITATIVE MEASUREMENTS OF DROPLETS
</title>

<abstract>
Provided herein are microfluidic devices for analyzing samples. In one aspect, the microfluidic device includes a body structure having a droplet compression chamber, a sieve structure in fluid communication with the droplet compression chamber, which sieve structure comprises an array of protrusions that extend from at least one surface of the body structure and define at least a portion of one or more fluidic circuits, and a port at least partially disposed in the body structure. Other aspects include kits, methods, systems, computer readable media, and related aspects for analyzing samples.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A microfluidic device, comprising a body structure having a droplet compression chamber that is structured to at least partially and simultaneously contain a plurality of droplets, at least one sieve structure in fluid communication with the droplet compression chamber, which sieve structure comprises an array of protrusions that extend from at least one surface of the body structure and define at least a portion of one or more fluidic circuits, and at least one port at least partially disposed in the body structure, which port is in fluid communication with the droplet compression chamber and/or the fluidic circuits, wherein the droplet compression chamber and sieve structure compress and selectively immobilize the plurality of droplets and permit selective removal of carrier fluid from the droplet compression chamber through the fluidic circuits, when the plurality of droplets are disposed in the droplet chamber and positioned substantially above the fluidic circuits proximal to the array of protrusions
2. The microfluidic device of claim 1 , wherein the body structure comprises a first layer defining at least the portion of the droplet compression chamber that is structured to at least partially and simultaneously contain the plurality of droplets, and a second layer operably connected to the first layer, which second layer comprises the at least one sieve structure in fluid communication with the droplet compression chamber, wherein the at least one port is at least partially disposed in the first and/or second layer.
3. The microfluidic device of claim 1 or 2, comprising one or more gaps within and/or proximal to the array of protrusions, which gaps substantially lack protrusions.
4. The microfluidic device of any one preceding claim, comprising the plurality of droplets.
5. The microfluidic device of any one preceding claim, wherein the plurality of droplets comprise a partitioned sample
6. The microfluidic device of any one preceding claim, wherein the sample comprises one or more cells and/or biomolecules.
7. The microfluidic device of any one preceding claim, wherein at least a portion of one or more of the protrusions comprise at least one cross-sectional shape selected from the group consisting of: a square, a rectangle, an oval, a trapezoid, a circle, an irregular n-sided polygon, and a regular n-sided polygon.
8. The microfluidic device of any one preceding claim, wherein the droplet compression chamber is structured to at least partially and simultaneously contain the plurality of droplets at a density of at least about 110,000 droplets per square inch of at least one surface of the droplet compression chamber
9. The microfluidic device of any one preceding claim, comprising at least two ports at least partially disposed in the body structure and in fluid communication with the droplet compression chamber and/or the fluidic circuits, wherein at least a first port is configured to flow droplets into the droplet compression chamber and at least a second port is configured to flow carrier fluid out of the droplet compression chamber through the fluidic circuits.
10. A kit comprising the microfluidic device of any one preceding claim.
11. A method of analyzing a sample, the method comprising:
receiving a mixture comprising a plurality of droplets and at least one carrier fluid in a droplet compression chamber of a microfluidic device through at least a first port of the microfluidic device that is in fluid communication with the droplet compression chamber, wherein the plurality of droplets comprises partitioned portions of the sample and wherein at least one sieve structure of the microfluidic device is in fluid communication with the droplet compression chamber, which sieve structure comprises an array of protrusions that extend from at least one surface of the microfluidic device and define at least a portion of one or more fluidic circuits;
removing at least a portion of the carrier fluid from the droplet compression chamber through at least a second port of the microfluidic device that is in fluid communication with the fluidic circuits to immobilize the plurality of droplets substantially above the fluidic circuits proximal to the array of protrusions to generate an immobilized population of droplets; and, detecting at least one detectable signal from the immobilized population of droplets, thereby analyzing the sample.
12. The method of claim 11 , wherein the plurality of droplets is in an aqueous phase and wherein the carrier fluid is in a non-aqueous phase.
13. The method of claim 1 1 or 12, wherein the detectable signal comprises a thermal and/or electromagnetic property of, or originating from, one or more members of the population of droplets or components thereof.
14. The method of any one preceding claim, wherein the sample comprises one or more ceils and/or biomolecules.
15. The method of any one preceding claim, comprising detecting the detectable signal using a thermal and/or optical imaging device.
16. The method of any one preceding claim, comprising at least about 110,000 droplets per square inch of at least one surface of the droplet compression chamber.
17. The method of any one preceding claim, further comprising obtaining the sample from a subject
18. The method of any one preceding claim, further comprising generating the plurality of droplets using at least one droplet generating device.
19. A microfluidic system, comprising:
a microfiuidic device, comprising a body structure having a droplet compression chamber that is structured to at least partially and simultaneously contain a plurality of droplets, at least one sieve structure in fluid communication with the droplet compression chamber, which sieve structure comprises an array of protrusions that extend from at least one surface of the body structure and define at least a portion of one or more fluidic circuits, and at least one port at least partially disposed in the body structure, which port is in fluid communication with the droplet compression chamber and/or the fluidic circuits, wherein the droplet compression chamber and sieve structure compress and selectively immobilize the plurality of droplets and permit selective removal of carrier fluid from the droplet compression chamber through the fluidic circuits, when the plurality of droplets are disposed in the droplet chamber and positioned substantially above the fluidic circuits proximal to the array of protrusions; a detection device configured to obtain detectable signal from the plurality of droplets, when the plurality of droplets are disposed in the droplet chamber and positioned substantially above the fluidic circuits proximal to the array of protrusions; and,
a control device operably connected to the detection device, which control device comprises, or is capable of accessing, computer readable media comprising nontransitory computer-executable instructions which, when executed by at least one electronic processor perform at least:
detecting at least one detectable signal from the plurality of droplets, when the plurality of droplets are disposed in the droplet chamber and positioned substantially above the fluidic circuits proximal to the array of protrusions.
20. The microfluidic system of claim 19, further comprising a droplet generating device operably connected to the control device, which control device further comprises, or is capable of further accessing, computer readable media comprising non-transitory computer-executable instructions which, when executed by the at least one electronic processor further perform:
generating the plurality of droplets using the droplet generating device.
21. The microfluidic system of any one preceding claim, further comprising a droplet treatment device operably connected at least to the control device, the droplet generating device, and the microfluidic device, which control device further comprises, or is capable of further accessing, computer readable media comprising non-transitory computer-executable instructions which, when executed by the at least one electronic processor further perform:
conveying the plurality of droplets from the droplet generating device to the droplet treatment device; treating the plurality of droplets received from the droplet generating device to generate treated droplets using the droplet treatment device; and,
conveying the treated droplets from the droplet treatment device to the microfluidic device
22. A computer readable media comprising non-transitory computerexecutable instructions which, when executed by at least one electronic processor perform, or cause an operabiy connected microfluidic system component to perform, at least:
receiving a mixture comprising a plurality of droplets and at least one carrier fluid in a droplet compression chamber of a microfluidic device through at least a first port of the microfluidic device that is in fluid communication with the droplet compression chamber, wherein the plurality of droplets comprises partitioned portions of the sample and wherein at least one sieve structure of the microfluidic device is in fluid communication with the droplet compression chamber, which sieve structure comprises an array of protrusions that extend from at least one surface of the microfluidic device and define at least a portion of one or more fluidic circuits;
removing at least a portion of the carrier fluid from the droplet compression chamber through at least a second port of the microfluidic device that is in fluid communication with the fluidic circuits to immobilize the plurality of droplets substantially above the fluidic circuits proximal to the array of protrusions to generate an immobilized population of droplets; and,
detecting at least one detectable signal from the immobilized population of droplets.
</claims>
</document>
