<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L12/729,H04L12/851
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIN YUN
SOLDATI, PABLO
FIASCHI, GIOVANNI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65911148
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS, APPARATUS AND COMPUTER PROGRAMS FOR CONFIGURING A TELECOMMUNICATION NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
A method is provided for configuring a telecommunication network comprising a plurality of nodes, with pairs of nodes being connected by respective links and each link having a respective link capacity. Traffic directed over the telecommunication network is associated with one of a plurality of traffic classes, with each traffic class having a respective priority value. The method comprises: a) determining an amount of traffic associated with each traffic class flowing on a first link of the telecommunication network; b) for each traffic class, determining a traffic class link capacity, the traffic class link capacity for a particular traffic class varying as a function of a difference between the link capacity of the first link and capacity allocated to other traffic classes on the first link according to a scheduling algorithm based on the priority value of the particular traffic class and the priority values of the other traffic classes; c) for each traffic class, determining a traffic class link criticality of the first link as a function of the respective traffic class link capacity and an amount of traffic associated with the traffic class flowing on the first link; d) determining one or more overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link, the overall traffic class link criticality for a particular traffic class for the first link varying as a function of a sum of the traffic class link criticalities for one or more traffic classes for the first link, the one or more traffic classes including at least the particular traffic class and each traffic class of the plurality of traffic classes for which the traffic class link capacity varies by virtue of the scheduling algorithm and the priority value associated with the particular traffic class; e) repeating steps a) to d) for one or more second links of the telecommunication network; and f) configuring the telecommunication network based on the overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link and the one or more second links.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for configuring a telecommunication network (106, 108, 204), the telecommunication network comprising a plurality of nodes, with pairs of nodes being connected by respective links, each link having a respective link capacity, wherein traffic directed over the telecommunication network is associated with one of a plurality of traffic classes, each traffic class having a respective priority value, the method comprising:
a) determining (300) an amount of traffic associated with each traffic class flowing on a first link of the telecommunication network;
b) for each traffic class, determining (302) a traffic class link capacity, the traffic class link capacity for a particular traffic class varying as a function of a difference between the link capacity of the first link and capacity allocated to other traffic classes on the first link according to a scheduling algorithm based on the priority value of the particular traffic class and the priority values of the other traffic classes;
c) for each traffic class, determining (304) a traffic class link criticality of the first link as a function of the respective traffic class link capacity and an amount of traffic associated with the traffic class flowing on the first link;
d) determining (306, 600, 800) one or more overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link, the overall traffic class link criticality for a particular traffic class for the first link varying as a function of a sum of the traffic class link criticalities for one or more traffic classes for the first link, the one or more traffic classes including at least the particular traffic class and each traffic class of the plurality of traffic classes for which the traffic class link capacity varies by virtue of the scheduling algorithm and the priority value associated with the particular traffic class;
e) repeating steps a) to d) for one or more second links of the telecommunication network; and
f) configuring (312) the telecommunication network based on the overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link and the one or more second links.
2. The method according to claim 1 , wherein configuring the telecommunication network comprises (606) allocating traffic to paths on the telecommunication network based on the overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link and the one or more second links. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein a demand for connectivity between a first node and a second node is allocated to the telecommunication network, with traffic for the demand being directed via at least first and second paths between the first and second nodes, the first path comprising the first link and the second path comprising a particular second link, and wherein configuring the telecommunication network comprises transferring (606) traffic between the first and second paths in accordance with the overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link and the particular second link.
4. The method according to claim 3, further comprising determining a difference between the overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link and the overall traffic class link criticalities for the particular second link, and wherein transferring traffic between the first and second paths comprises transferring traffic associated with a traffic class for which the difference in overall class link criticality is the greatest.
5. The method according to claim 3 or 4, wherein traffic for the demand is directed via at least first and second paths in accordance with respective weights assigned to each path, and transferring traffic comprises adapting the respective weights.
6. The method according to any one of claims 3 to 5, further comprising determining (602) one or more overall traffic class path criticalities for the first path by summing the overall traffic class link criticalities for links belonging to the first path, and determining one or more overall traffic class path criticalities for the second path by summing the overall traffic class link criticalities for links belonging to the second path, and wherein allocating traffic to paths on the telecommunication network based on the overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link and the one or more second links comprises allocating traffic to paths on the telecommunication network based on the overall traffic class path criticalities for the first and second paths.
7. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein configuring the telecommunication network comprises scheduling (804) a link for maintenance or upgrade based on the one or more overall traffic class criticalities.
8. The method according to claim 7, further comprising storing (802) the overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link and the one or more second links in a database comprising historical overall traffic class link criticalities for links of the telecommunication network, and scheduling a link for maintenance or upgrade based on the historical overall traffic class link criticalities.
9. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the scheduling algorithm comprises a strict priority algorithm, in which all traffic associated with a traffic class having a first priority value is scheduled for transmission prior to all traffic associated with traffic classes having priority values lower than the first priority value.
10. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the scheduling algorithm comprises a weighted fair queuing algorithm, in which traffic associated with each traffic class is allocated a share of the link capacity based on the respective priority values associate with each traffic class.
1 1. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the scheduling algorithm comprises a rate-limiting function, configured to limit a share of the link capacity for each traffic class to a determined maximum value.
12. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the traffic class link criticality for a particular traffic class of the first link varies as a function of a traffic class link utilization for the particular traffic class, the traffic class link utilization being a ratio between the amount of traffic associated with the particular traffic class flowing on the first link and the traffic class link capacity for the particular traffic class for the first link.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the traffic class link criticality for a particular traffic class of the first link varies as a function of a traffic class link utilization for the particular traffic class at a non-constant gradient between a first value at a first value of the utilization and a second value at a second value of the utilization, the first value of the traffic class link criticality being less than the second value of the traffic class link criticality and the first value of the traffic class link utilization being less than the second value of the traffic class link utilization.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the traffic class link criticality for a particular traffic class of the first link varies as a sigmoid function (500, 502) of the traffic class link utilization for the particular traffic class.
15. The method according to claim 13, wherein the traffic class link criticality for a particular traffic class of the first link varies as a rectifier function (510, 512) of the traffic class link utilization for the particular traffic class.
16. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the overall traffic class link criticality for a particular traffic class for the first link varies as a function of a weighted sum of the traffic class link criticalities for one or more traffic classes for the first link, the traffic class link criticalities for the one or more traffic classes for the first link being weighted by respective coefficients.
17. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the method is performed in a software-defined network controller (206, 900) for the telecommunications network.
18. A network management node (900) for configuring a telecommunication network, the telecommunication network comprising a plurality of nodes, with pairs of nodes being connected by respective links, each link having a respective link capacity, wherein traffic directed over the telecommunication network is associated with one of a plurality of traffic classes, each traffic class having a respective priority value, the network management node comprising processing circuitry (902) and a non-transitory machine-readable medium (904) storing instructions which, when executed by processing circuitry, cause the network management node to:
a) determine an amount of traffic associated with each traffic class flowing on a first link of the telecommunication network;
b) for each traffic class, determine a traffic class link capacity, the traffic class link capacity for a particular traffic class varying as a function of a difference between the link capacity of the first link and capacity allocated to other traffic classes on the first link according to a scheduling algorithm based on the priority value of the particular traffic class and the priority values of the other traffic classes; c) for each traffic class, determine a traffic class link criticality of the first link as a function of the respective traffic class link capacity and an amount of traffic associated with the traffic class flowing on the first link;
d) determine one or more overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link, the overall traffic class link criticality for a particular traffic class for the first link varying as a function of a sum of the traffic class link criticalities for one or more traffic classes for the first link, the one or more traffic classes including at least the particular traffic class and each traffic class of the plurality of traffic classes for which the traffic class link capacity varies by virtue of the scheduling algorithm and the priority value associated with the particular traffic class;
e) repeat steps a) to d) for one or more second links of the telecommunication network; and
f) configure the telecommunication network based on the overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link and the one or more second links.
19. The network management node according to claim 18, wherein the network management node is caused to configure the telecommunication network by allocating traffic to paths on the telecommunication network based on the overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link and the one or more second links.
20. The network management node according to claim 19, wherein a demand for connectivity between a first node and a second node is allocated to the telecommunication network, with traffic for the demand being directed via at least first and second paths between the first and second nodes, the first path comprising the first link and the second path comprising a particular second link, and wherein the network management node is caused to configure the telecommunication network by transferring traffic between the first and second paths in accordance with the overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link and the particular second link.
21. The network management node according to claim 20, wherein the network management node is further caused to determine a difference between the overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link and the overall traffic class link criticalities for the particular second link, and wherein the network management node is caused to transfer traffic between the first and second paths by transferring traffic associated with a traffic class for which the difference in overall class link criticality is the greatest.
22. The network management node according to claim 20 or 21 , wherein traffic for the demand is directed via at least first and second paths in accordance with respective weights assigned to each path, and transferring traffic comprises adapting the respective weights.
23. The network management node according to any one of claims 20 to 22, wherein the network management node is further caused to determine one or more overall traffic class path criticalities for the first path by summing the overall traffic class link criticalities for links belonging to the first path, and determining one or more overall traffic class path criticalities for the second path by summing the overall traffic class link criticalities for links belonging to the second path, and wherein the network management node is caused to allocate traffic to paths on the telecommunication network based on the overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link and the one or more second links by allocating traffic to paths on the telecommunication network based on the overall traffic class path criticalities for the first and second paths.
24. The network management node according to any one of claims 18 to 23, wherein the network management node is caused to configure the telecommunication network by scheduling a link for maintenance or upgrade based on the one or more overall traffic class criticalities.
25. The network management node according to claim 24, wherein the network management node is caused to store the overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link and the one or more second links in a database comprising historical overall traffic class link criticalities for links of the telecommunication network, and to schedule a link for maintenance or upgrade based on the historical overall traffic class link criticalities.
26. The network management node according to any one of claims 18 to 25, wherein the scheduling algorithm comprises a strict priority algorithm, in which all traffic associated with a traffic class having a first priority value is scheduled for transmission prior to all traffic associated with traffic classes having priority values lower than the first priority value.
27. The network management node according to any one of claims 18 to 26, wherein the scheduling algorithm comprises a weighted fair queuing algorithm, in which traffic associated with each traffic class is allocated a share of the link capacity based on the respective priority values associate with each traffic class.
28. The network management node according to any one of claims 18 to 27, wherein the scheduling algorithm comprises a rate-limiting function, configured to limit a share of the link capacity for each traffic class to a determined maximum value.
29. The network management node according to any one of claims 18 to 28, wherein the traffic class link criticality for a particular traffic class of the first link varies as a function of a traffic class link utilization for the particular traffic class, the traffic class link utilization being a ratio between the amount of traffic associated with the particular traffic class flowing on the first link and the traffic class link capacity for the particular traffic class for the first link.
30. The network management node according to claim 29, wherein the traffic class link criticality for a particular traffic class of the first link varies as a function of a traffic class link utilization for the particular traffic class at a non-constant gradient between a first value at a first value of the utilization and a second value at a second value of the utilization, the first value of the traffic class link criticality being less than the second value of the traffic class link criticality and the first value of the traffic class link utilization being less than the second value of the traffic class link utilization.
31. The network management node according to claim 30, wherein the traffic class link criticality for a particular traffic class of the first link varies as a sigmoid function of the traffic class link utilization for the particular traffic class.
32. The network management node according to claim 30, wherein the traffic class link criticality for a particular traffic class of the first link varies as a rectifier function of the traffic class link utilization for the particular traffic class. 33. The network management node according to any one of claims 18 to 32, wherein the overall traffic class link criticality for a particular traffic class for the first link varies as a function of a weighted sum of the traffic class link criticalities for one or more traffic classes for the first link, the traffic class link criticalities for the one or more traffic classes for the first link being weighted by respective coefficients.
34. The network management node according to any one of claims 18 to 33, wherein the network management node is implemented in a software-defined network controller for the telecommunications network
35. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory machine-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by processing circuitry of a network management node, the network management node being coupled to a telecommunications network, the telecommunication network comprising a plurality of nodes, with pairs of nodes being connected by respective links, each link having a respective link capacity, wherein traffic directed over the telecommunication network is associated with one of a plurality of traffic classes, each traffic class having a respective priority value, cause the network management node to:
a) determine an amount of traffic associated with each traffic class flowing on a first link of the telecommunication network;
b) for each traffic class, determine a traffic class link capacity, the traffic class link capacity for a particular traffic class varying as a function of a difference between the link capacity of the first link and capacity allocated to other traffic classes on the first link according to a scheduling algorithm based on the priority value of the particular traffic class and the priority values of the other traffic classes;
c) for each traffic class, determine a traffic class link criticality of the first link as a function of the respective traffic class link capacity and an amount of traffic associated with the traffic class flowing on the first link;
d) determine one or more overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link, the overall traffic class link criticality for a particular traffic class for the first link varying as a function of a sum of the traffic class link criticalities for one or more traffic classes for the first link, the one or more traffic classes including at least the particular traffic class and each traffic class of the plurality of traffic classes for which the traffic class link capacity varies by virtue of the scheduling algorithm and the priority value associated with the particular traffic class; and e) repeat steps a) to d) for one or more second links of the telecommunication network; and f) configure the telecommunication network based on the overall traffic class link criticalities for the first link and the one or more second links.
</claims>
</document>
