<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUIT
</assignee>

<inventors>
RIMCHALA, THARATHORN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67551437
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SPATIAL ENCODING AND FEATURE GENERATORS FOR ENHANCING INFORMATION EXTRACTION
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for extracting data from a piece of content using spatial information about the piece of content. The system and method may use a conditional random fields process or a bidirectional long short term memory and conditional random fields process to extract structured data using the spatial information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising:
receiving, by a processor of a computer system, a text stream of data derived by an optical character recognition process from an image of a piece of content;
detecting, by the processor of the computer system, a plurality of pieces of spatial information associated with the piece of content, wherein the plurality of pieces of spatial information represent hierarchical spatial information about the piece of content;
encoding, by the processor of the computer system, the plurality of spatial features into a token associated with a particular word;
generating, by the processor of the computer system, a spatial feature based on the encoded plurality of spatial features, wherein the generated spatial feature converts the plurality of spatial features into a plurality of numerical values;
inputting, by the processor of the computer system, the generated spatial feature into a machine learning model; and
performing, by the processor of the computer system, the machine learning model using the generated spatial features.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the plurality of pieces of spatial information further comprises detecting, by the processor of the computer system, at least one empty cell in the piece of content.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein detecting the at least one empty cell further comprises inserting, by the processor of the computer system, an empty cell placeholder into the detected empty cell.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the machine learning model further comprises performing an information extraction machine learning process to extract data from a piece of content.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein performing an information extraction machine learning process further comprises receiving a textstream from an optical character recognition process of a form and extracting words from the form using the information extraction machine learning process.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein performing an information extraction machine learning process further comprises using a conditional random field machine learning model to extract data from the form.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein performing an information extraction machine learning process further comprises using a bidirectional long short term memory and conditional random field machine learning models to extract data from the form.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the hierarchical spatial information further comprising spatial information about a page of the piece of content, spatial information about a cell in the page of the piece of content, spatial information about a paragraph in the cell of the piece of content, spatial information about a line in the paragraph of the piece of content and spatial information about a word in the line of the piece of content.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein encoding the plurality of spatial features into a token associated with a particular word further comprises generating a TokenWithSpatial object having the particular word, each of the plurality of spatial features and an entity label for the particular word.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein encoding the plurality of spatial features into a token associated with a particular word further comprises generating a plurality of numerical features based on the plurality of spatial features that are input to the machine learning model.
11. An apparatus, comprising:
a computer based neural network;
a computer, connected to the computer based neural network, having a processor and instructions configured to:
receive a text stream of data derived by an optical character recognition process from an image of a piece of content;
detect a plurality of pieces of spatial information associated with the piece of content, wherein the plurality of pieces of spatial information represent hierarchical spatial information about the piece of content;
encode the plurality of spatial features into a token associated with a
particular word;
generate a spatial feature based on the encoded plurality of spatial features, wherein the generated spatial feature converts the plurality of spatial features into a plurality of numerical values; and
input the generated spatial feature into a machine learning model; and wherein the computer based neural network performs a machine learning
model using the generated spatial features.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to detect at least one empty cell in the piece of content.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to insert, by the processor of the computer system, an empty cell placeholder into the detected empty cell.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the neural network performs an information extraction machine learning process to extract data from a piece of content.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the neural network extracts word data from a form using the information extraction machine learning process.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the neural network uses a conditional random field machine learning model to extract data from the form.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the neural network uses a bidirectional long short term memory and conditional random field machine learning models to extract data from the form.
18. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the hierarchical spatial information further comprising spatial information about a page of the piece of content, spatial information about a cell in the page of the piece of content, spatial information about a paragraph in the cell of the piece of content, spatial information about a line in the paragraph of the piece of content and spatial information about a word in the line of the piece of content.
19. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a TokenWithSpatial object having the particular word, each of the plurality of spatial features and an entity label for the particular word.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a plurality of numerical features based on the plurality of spatial features that are input to the machine learning model.
</claims>
</document>
