<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/063,G11C11/54,G11C16/12,G11C16/14,G11C16/16,G11C16/24,G11C16/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SILICON STORAGE TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HONG, STANLEY
LY, ANH
TRAN HIEU
TRINH, STEPHEN
VU, THUAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71731340
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRECISION PROGRAMMING CIRCUIT FOR ANALOG NEURAL MEMORY IN DEEP LEARNING ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments of high voltage generation circuits, high voltage operational amplifiers, adaptive high voltage supplies, adjustable high voltage incrementor, adjustable reference supplies, and reference circuits are disclosed. These circuits optionally can be used for programming a non-volatile memory cell in an analog neural memory to store one of many possible values.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An adjustable programming circuit for generating one of a plurality of different voltages to program a non-volatile memory cell to store one of a plurality of different voltages on a floating gate of the non-volatile memory cell for a neural network, comprising:
an operational amplifier comprising a first input terminal, a second input terminal, and an output terminal, the first input terminal receiving a reference voltage;
a first resistor coupled to the second input terminal of the operational amplifier;
a second resistor coupled to the second input terminal of the operational amplifier and the output terminal of the operational amplifier;
wherein one of the first resistor and the second resistor is a variable resistor;
wherein the output terminal outputs a programming voltage that varies in response to a setting of the variable resistor to generate one of a plurality of different voltages.
2. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 1, wherein the first resistor is the variable resistor.
3. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 1, wherein the second resistor is the variable resistor.
4. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 1, wherein the first resistor is the variable resistor operating in a low voltage domain.
5. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 1, wherein the second resistor is the variable resistor operating in a high voltage domain.
6. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 1, wherein a high voltage supply for the operational amplifier is adaptable basing on the operational amplifier output voltage .
7. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 1, wherein the non-volatile memory cell is a stacked-gate memory cell.
8. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 1, wherein the non-volatile memory cell is a split-gate memory cell.
9. An adjustable programming circuit for generating one of a plurality of different voltages to program a non-volatile memory cell to store one of a plurality of different voltages on a floating gate of the non-volatile memory cell for a neural network, comprising:
a first operational amplifier comprising a first input terminal, a second input terminal, and an output terminal, the first input terminal receiving a reference voltage;
a second operational amplifier comprising a first input terminal, a second input terminal, and an output terminal, the first input terminal of the second operational amplifier coupled to the output terminal of the second operational amplifier;
a first resistor coupled to the second input terminal of the first operational amplifier and the output terminal of the first operational amplifier;
a second resistor coupled between the second input terminal of the first operational amplifier and the output terminal of the second operational amplifier;
an adjustable voltage divider coupled to the second input terminal of the second operational amplifier;
wherein the output terminal of the first operational amplifier outputs a programming voltage that varies in response to a voltage output by the adjustable voltage divider.
10. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 9, wherein the adjustable voltage divider and the second operational amplifier operate in a low voltage domain.
11. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 9, wherein the first operational amplifier operates in a high voltage domain.
12. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 9, wherein the high voltage supply for the first operational amplifier is adjustable basing on the programming voltage .
13. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 9, wherein the non-volatile memory cell is a stacked-gate memory cell.
14. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 9, wherein the non-volatile memory cell is a split-gate memory cell.
15. An adjustable programming circuit for generating one of a plurality of different voltages to program a non-volatile memory cell to store one of a plurality of different voltages on a floating gate of the non-volatile memory cell for a neural network, comprising:
a first adjustable voltage divider comprising a first output terminal and a second output terminal;
a second adjustable voltage divider;
a first operational amplifier comprising a first input terminal, a second input terminal, and an output terminal, wherein the first input terminal of the first operational amplifier is coupled to the output terminal of the first operational amplifier and the second input terminal of the first operational amplifier is coupled to the first output terminal of the first adjustable voltage divider, and the output terminal of the first operational amplifier provides a first programming voltage; and
a second operational amplifier comprising a first input terminal, a second input terminal, and an output terminal, wherein the first input terminal of the second operational amplifier is coupled to the output terminal of the second operational amplifier and the first input terminal of the second operational amplifier is coupled to the second output terminal of the first adjustable voltage divider;
wherein the second adjustable voltage divider is coupled to the output terminal of the second operational amplifier and the output terminal of the first operational amplifier and provides a second programming voltage;
wherein the first programming voltage varies in response to the first adjustable voltage divider and the second programming voltage varies in response to the first adjustable voltage divider and the second adjustable voltage divider.
16. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 15, wherein the first voltage divider provides coarse level adjustability and the second voltage divider provides fine level adjustability.
17. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 15, wherein the high voltage supply for the operational amplifier is adjustable based on the programming voltage.
18. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 15, wherein the non-volatile memory cell is a stacked-gate memory cell.
19. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 15, wherein the non-volatile memory cell is a split-gate memory cell.
20. An adjustable programming circuit for generating a programming voltage that comprises one of a plurality of different voltages to program a non-volatile memory cell to store one of a plurality of different voltages on a floating gate of the non-volatile memory cell for a neural network, comprising:
a switched capacitor network to provide coarse level adjustability for the programming voltage; and a resistor network to provide fine level adjustability for the programming voltage;
wherein the maximum change in programming voltage in response to the fine level adjustability is less than the maximum change in programming voltage in response to the coarse level adjustability; and
wherein the adjustable programming circuit is capable of generating any of the plurality of different voltages as the programming voltage based upon configurations of the switched capacitor network and the resistor network.
21. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 20, wherein the non-volatile memory cell is a stacked-gate memory cell.
22. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 20, wherein the non-volatile memory cell is a split-gate memory cell.
23. An adjustable programming circuit for generating a programming voltage that comprises one of a plurality of different voltages to program a non-volatile memory cell for a neural network to store one of a plurality of different voltages on a floating gate of the non volatile memory cell, comprising:
an operational amplifier comprising a first input terminal, a second input terminal, and an output terminal, the first input terminal receiving a reference voltage;
a first switched capacitor network coupled between the second input terminal of the operational amplifier and the output terminal of the operational amplifier;
a second switched capacitor network coupled between an input voltage and the second input terminal of the operational amplifier; wherein the output terminal of the operational amplifier outputs a programming voltage that varies in response to the capacitance of the first switched capacitor network and the capacitance of the second switched capacitor network.
24. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 23, wherein the first switched capacitor network comprises an adjustable capacitor.
25. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 23, wherein the second switched capacitor network comprises an adjustable capacitor.
26. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 24, wherein the second switched capacitor network comprises an adjustable capacitor.
27. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 23, wherein the non-volatile memory cell is a stacked-gate memory cell.
28. The adjustable programming circuit of claim 23, wherein the non-volatile memory cell is a split-gate memory cell.
29. An adjustable high voltage incrementor for generating a programming voltage in response to input digital control signals to program a multilevel non-volatile memory cell for a neural network comprising:
an adjustable input voltage supply comprising one or more high voltage level shifters for generating a high voltage signal that varies based on the input digital control signals
a set of cascoding transistors for receiving the high voltage signal and generating the programming voltage, wherein the programming voltage varies based on the level to be programmed in the multilevel non-volatile memory cell.
30. The adjustable high voltage incrementor of claim 29, wherein a high voltage level shifter is selected from the one or more high voltage level shifters based on resistor string location.
31. The adjustable high voltage incrementor of claim 29, wherein a voltage supply for the set of cascoding transistors is selected based on an output of a multiplexor.
32. The adjustable high voltage incrementor of claim 29, wherein the non-volatile memory cell is a split-gate memory cell.
33. The adjustable high voltage incrementor of claim 29, wherein the non-volatile memory cell is a stacked-gate memory cell.
</claims>
</document>
