<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01D21/00,G01S13/48,G01S13/88,G01S13/89,G06N20/00,G08B21/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOONSHOT HEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEAUMONT, RÉMY
LAGACÉ, ÉTIENNE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69591044
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MAPPING A GIVEN ENVIRONMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for mapping boundaries of a given environment by a processor of a computer system, the method comprising: determining a trajectory of the body in the given environment over the given time period; and determining, based on the trajectory of the body in the given environment, one or more of an outer boundary of the given environment, and an inner boundary of the given environment. Methods and systems for mapping functionalities of a given environment executable by a processor of a computer system, the method comprising determining a pattern of movement of a body in the given environment in a given time period; and determining a functional identity of at least one zone in the given environment based on the pattern of movement of the body to obtain a mapped given environment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for mapping boundaries of a given environment, the method executable by a processor of a computer system, the method comprising: determining a trajectory of a body in the given environment over a given time period; and determining, based on the trajectory of the body in the given environment, one or more of an outer boundary of the given environment, and an inner boundary of the given environment.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the trajectory is determined using radio frequency signals, the method optionally further comprising emitting and receiving radio frequency signals in the given environment, from at least one mapping device, over a given time period, the received radio frequency signals including radio frequency signals reflected from a body moving in the given environment.
3. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein determining the outer boundary comprises identifying outermost points of the trajectory.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein determining the inner boundary of the given environment comprises segmenting the trajectory into zones of movement, and approximating a boundary in between the zones.
5. The method of any of claims 1-4, wherein the segmenting the trajectory into zones comprises grouping a plurality of co-ordinates or location vectors of the trajectory of the body based on one or more of:
(i) a physical proximity of the co-ordinates or location vectors to one another,
(ii) a duration of time spent at certain of the co-ordinates or location vectors by the body in the given time period,
(iii) a time(s) of day of location of the body at certain co-ordinates or location vectors in the given time period, (iv) a sequence of location of the body at certain co-ordinates or location vectors in the given time period,
(v) a frequency of location of the body at certain co-ordinates or location vectors in the given time period,
(vi) contextual data relating to the given environment.
6. The method of any of claims 1-5, further comprising obtaining contextual data about the given environment at the time of determining the trajectory of movement of the body.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the contextual data comprises one or more of sound data, vibration data, magnetic data, electromagnetic radiation, air quality data, air humidity data, temperature data, barometric pressure data, oxygen levels, carbon dioxide levels, luminosity levels, UV levels, a time of day, a time of week, a time of year, a season, geolocation and weather conditions.
8. The method of any of claims 1-7, further comprising determining the location of inanimate objects in the given environment.
9. The method of any of claims 1-8, further comprising obtaining physiological data about the body at the time of determining the pattern of movement.
10. The method of any of claims 1-9, further comprising determining one or more activities performed by the body over the given time period.
11. The method of any of claims 1-9, wherein the determining one or more of the outer boundary of the given environment, and the inner boundary of the given environment comprises the computer system executing a Machine Learning Algorithm (MLA).
12. The method of claim 11, wherein, prior to determining the one or more of an outer boundary of the given environment, and an inner boundary of the given environment, the method further comprises executing a training process for the MLA.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the training process comprises providing at least one training set, the training set including a reference trajectories of movement of reference bodies in given environments with outer and inner boundaries, and a target value representative of a location of one or more of an outer boundary and an inner boundary; the reference trajectories of movement optionally including at least one of: an age /gender of the reference bodies, a condition/diagnosis/state of the reference bodies, a time of year that the reference pattern of movement is determined, a time of day that the reference pattern of movement is determined, a time of week that the reference pattern of movement is determined, a geolocation of the reference bodies, specified event(s) of the reference bodies, time spent in one or more zones of the reference environments, activities performed by the reference bodies, time of day spent in one or more zones of the reference environment, a sequence of being located in one or more zones of the reference environment, a frequency of being located in one or more zones of the environment, and contextual parameters about the reference environment.
14. The method of any of claims 1-13, wherein the determining the outer boundary of the given environment, and an inner boundary of the given environment further comprises determining a pattern of movement of the body in the given environment in the given time period, and determining a functional identity of at least one zone in the given environment based on the pattern of movement of the body.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the functional identity of the at least one zone is one or more selected from a: living zone, sleeping zone, a resting zone, a cooking zone, an eating zone, a recreational zone, a bathroom zone, a hallway zone, a doorway zone.
16. The method of claim 14 or claim 15, further comprising comparing the pattern of movement with a reference pattern of movement of a reference body in a reference environment.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the reference pattern of movement is selected based on a relevance of (i) an age/gender of the body compared to the reference body, (ii) a condition/diagnosis of the body compared to a condition/diagnosis of the reference body, (iii) a time of year that the pattern of movement is determined compared to a time of year that the reference pattern of movement was determined, (iv) a geolocation of the body compared to a geolocation of the reference body, (v) a specified event of the body compared to a specified event of the reference body, (vi) gender of the body compared to a gender of the reference body, (vii) cultural background of the body compared to a cultural background of the reference body, (viii) DNA mapping of the body compared to DNA mapping of the reference body, (ix) biomarker of the body compared to a biomarker of the reference body, (x) medication being taken by the body compared to a medication taken by the reference body, (xi) contextual data about the environment, or (xii) activity of the body compared to a specific activity of the reference body.
18. The method of claim 16 or claim 17, wherein the reference pattern of movement defines one or more of: (i) a time spent in one or more zones of the reference environment, (ii) a time of day spent in one or more zones of the reference environment, (iii) a sequence of being located in one or more zones of the reference environment, (iv) a frequency of being located in one or more zones of the environment, (v) a speed of movement within the reference environment, (vi) a transition time between one or more zones of the reference environment, (vii) number of transitions between zones of the reference environment, and (viii) one or more activities performed in in the zones of the reference environment.
19. The method of any of claims 14-18, wherein the determining the identity of the at least one zone in the given environment comprises the computer system executing a Machine Learning Algorithm (MLA).
20. The method of any of claims 14-19, wherein the determining the pattern of movement of the body comprises processing detected radio frequency signals to identify locations of the body in the given environment as a function of time.
21. The method of any of claims 14-20, wherein the determining the pattern of movement of the body comprises processing detected radio frequency signals to determine an activity being performed by the body.
22. The method of any of claims 1-20, further comprising validating one or more of the determined outer boundary and the inner boundary based on a user input.
23. A system for mapping boundaries of a given environment, the system comprising a computer system operatively coupled to a mapping device, configured to emit and receive radio frequency signals, the computer system having a processor arranged to execute a method according to any of claims 1-22.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the mapping device has two or more units.
25. The system of claim 23 or claim 24, further comprising one or more sensors for obtaining contextual data and/or physiological data.
26. A method for mapping a given environment, the method executable by a processor of a computer system, the method comprising:
determining a pattern of movement of a body in the given environment in a given time period; and determining a functional identity of at least one zone in the given environment based on the pattern of movement of the body in the given environment to obtain the mapping of the given environment.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the functional identity of the at least one zone is selected from a: living zone, sleeping zone, a resting zone, a cooking zone, an eating zone, a recreational zone, a bathroom zone, a hallway zone, a doorway zone.
28. The method of claim 26 or claim 27, wherein the pattern of movement is an average pattern of movement based on a plurality of patterns of movement of the body determined in a plurality of different time slots.
29. The method of any of claims 26-28, wherein the pattern of movement is defined by a sequence of co-ordinates or location vectors of the location of the body as a function of time.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the determining the identity of the at least one zone in the given environment comprises grouping together certain of the co-ordinates or location vectors based on a commonality or similarity of the co-ordinates or location vectors in terms of at least one of:
(i) a physical proximity of the co-ordinates or location vectors to one another,
(ii) a duration of time spent at certain of the co-ordinates or location vectors by the body in a predetermined time interval,
(iii) a time(s) of day of location of the body at certain co-ordinates or location vectors in the predetermined time interval, (iv) a sequence of location of the body at certain co-ordinates or location vectors in the predetermined time interval,
(v) a frequency of location of the body at certain co-ordinates or location vectors in the predetermined time interval,
(vi) contextual data about the given environment,
(vii) geolocation data about the given environment., and (viii) one or more activities performed in the at least one zone.
31. The method of any of claims 26-30, further comprising comparing the pattern of movement with a reference pattern of movement of a reference body in a reference given environment.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein the reference pattern of movement is selected based on a relevance of one or more of (i) an age/gender of the body compared to the reference body, (ii) a condition/diagnosis/state of the body compared to a condition/diagnosis of the reference body, (iii) a time of year that the pattern of movement is determined compared to a time of year that the reference pattern of movement was determined, (iv) a geolocation of the body compared to a geolocation of the reference body, (v) a specified event of the body compared to a specified event of the reference body, (vi) environmental conditions associated with the body compared to reference environmental conditions, (vii) gender of the body compared to a gender of the reference body, (viii) cultural background of the body compared to a cultural background of the reference body, (ix) DNA mapping of the body compared to DNA mapping of the reference body, (x) biomarker of the body compared to a biomarker of the reference body, and (xi) medication being taken by the body compared to a medication taken by the reference body.
33. The method of claim 31 or claim 32, wherein the reference pattern of movement defines one or more of: (i) a time spent in one or more zones of the reference environment, (ii) a time of day spent in one or more zones of the reference environment, (iii) a sequence of being located in one or more zones of the reference environment, (iv) a frequency of being located in one or more zones of the environment, (v) a speed of movement within the reference environment, (vi) a transition time between one or more zones of the reference environment, and (vii) number of transitions between zones of the reference environment.
34. The method of any of claims 26-33, further comprising obtaining physiological data about the body at the time of determining the pattern of movement.
35. The method of any of claims 26-34, further comprising obtaining contextual data about the given environment at the time of determining the pattern of movement.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein the contextual data comprises one or more of sound data, vibration data, magnetic data, electromagnetic radiation, air quality data, air humidity data, temperature data, barometric pressure data, oxygen levels, carbon dioxide levels, luminosity levels, UV levels, time of day, day of week, season, geolocation and weather conditions.
37. The method of any of claims 26-36, further comprising determining the location of inanimate objects in the given environment.
38. The method of any of claims 26-37, wherein the determining the identity of the at least one zone in the given environment comprises the computer system executing a Machine Learning Algorithm (MLA).
39. The method of claim 38, wherein, prior to the obtaining the pattern of movement, the method further comprises executing a training process for the MLA.
40. The method of claim 39, wherein the training process comprises providing at least one training set, the training set including patterns of movement of reference bodies in reference environments, and a target value representative of a functional identity of a zone; the reference patterns of movement of the reference bodies including at least one of: an age/gender of the reference bodies, a condition/diagnosis/state of the reference bodies, a time of year that the reference pattern of movement is determined, a time of day that the reference pattern of movement is determined, a time of week that the reference pattern of movement is determined, a geolocation of the reference bodies, specified event(s) of the reference bodies, time spent in one or more zones of the reference environments, time of day spent in one or more zones of the reference environment, a sequence of being located in one or more zones of the reference environment, a frequency of being located in one or more zones of the environment, and contextual parameters about the reference environment.
41. The method of any of claims 26-40, wherein determining the pattern of movement of the body comprises processing detected radio frequency signals to identify locations of the body in the given environment as a function of time.
42. The method of any of claims 26-41, wherein the determining an identity of at least one zone comprises identifying, based on at least one detected radio frequency radar signal, any one or more of (i) inanimate objects in the given environment, (ii) an outer boundary of the given environment, (iii) an inner boundary of the given environment, and (iv) activities performed in the given environment.
43. The method of claim 41 or claim 42, further comprising transmitting radio frequency signals, and detecting the reflected radio frequency signals using a mapping device in the given environment, the mapping device being in communication with the processor, and optionally the mapping device being stationary.
44. The method of any of claims 26-43, further comprising validating the determined identity of the at least one zone based on a user input, and optionally further comprising providing a prompt to the user before obtaining the user input.
45. The method of any of claims 26-44, further comprising establishing a baseline pattern of movement for the body in the given environment.
46. The method of claim 45, further comprising detecting a change in the baseline pattern of movement for the body in the given environment.
47. The method of claim 46, further comprising triggering an alert if the change from the baseline pattern of movement is outside of a predetermined threshold.
48. The method of any of claims 45-47, further comprising adjusting the baseline pattern of movement based on an external factor associated with the body, optionally the external factor being selected from medication, a current treatment, a time lapse since a past treatment (e.g. post-operative).
49. The method of any of claims 26-48, further comprising determining one or more of an outer boundary of the given environment, and an inner boundary of the given environment.
50. The method of claim 49, wherein determining the outer boundary of the given environment comprises identifying outermost points of a trajectory of the body in the given environment.
51. The method of claim 50, wherein determining the inner boundary of the given environment comprises segmenting a trajectory of the body in the given environment into zones of movement, and approximating a boundary in between the zones.
52. The method of claim 51, wherein segmenting the trajectory into zones comprises grouping together a plurality of co-ordinates or location vectors of the trajectory of the body based on one or more of:
(i) a physical proximity of the co-ordinates or location vectors to one another,
(ii) a duration of time spent at certain of the co-ordinates or location vectors by the body in a predetermined time interval,
(iii) a time(s) of day of location of the body at certain co-ordinates or location vectors in the predetermined time interval,
(iv) a sequence of location of the body at certain co-ordinates or location vectors in the predetermined time interval,
(v) a frequency of location of the body at certain co-ordinates or location vectors in the predetermined time interval,
(vi) contextual data about the given environment.
53. The method of any of claims 49-52, wherein the determining the one or more of an outer boundary of the given environment, and an inner boundary of the given environment comprises the computer system executing a Machine Learning Algorithm (MLA).
54. The method of claim 53, wherein, prior to determining the one or more of an outer boundary of the given environment, and an inner boundary of the given environment, the method further comprises executing a training process for the MLA.
55. The method of claim 54, wherein the training process comprises providing at least one training set, the training set including a reference trajectories of movement of reference bodies in given environments with outer and inner boundaries, and a target value representative of a location of one or more of an outer boundary and an inner boundary; the reference trajectories of movement optionally including at least one of: an age/gender of the reference bodies, a condition/diagnosis/state of the reference bodies, a time of year that the reference pattern of movement is determined, a time of day that the reference pattern of movement is determined, a time of week that the reference pattern of movement is determined, a geolocation of the reference bodies, specified event(s) of the reference bodies, time spent in one or more zones of the reference environments, time of day spent in one or more zones of the reference environment, a sequence of being located in one or more zones of the reference environment, a frequency of being located in one or more zones of the environment, and contextual parameters about the reference environment.
56. A system for mapping a given environment, the system comprising a computer system operatively coupled a mapping device, the computer system having a processor arranged to execute a method, the method comprising:
determining a pattern of movement of the body as a function of time; and determining an identity of at least one zone in the given environment based on the pattern of movement of the body to obtain a mapped given environment.
57. The system of claim 56, wherein the mapping device is configured to transmit and emit radio frequency signals.
58. The system of claim 56 or 57, wherein the mapping device has two or more units.
59. The system of any of claims 56-58, further comprising one or more sensors for obtaining contextual data and/or physiological data.
60. A method of mapping a given environment, the method executable by a processor of a computer system, the method comprising:
(i) determining a trajectory of the body in the given environment over the given time period;
(ii) determining, based on the trajectory of the body in the given environment, one or more of an outer boundary of the given environment, and an inner boundary of the given environment;
(iii) determining a pattern of movement of the body in the given environment, in which at least one or more of the inner and outer boundaries have been mapped, in a given time period; and
(iv) determining a functional identity of at least one zone in the given environment based on the pattern of movement of the body in the given environment to obtain the mapping of the given environment.
61. The method of claim 60, wherein the determining one or more of the outer boundary and the inner boundary of the given environment is according to any one of claims 2-20.
62. The method of claim 60 or claim 61, wherein determining the functional identity is according to any one or more of claims 24 to 53.
63. The method of any of claims 60 to 62, further comprising monitoring or tracking the body in the mapped given environment in order to detect a deviation from a baseline pattern of movement or to detect an event.
64. A method of tracking a body in a given environment, the method executable by a processor of a computer system, the method comprising:
monitoring a pattern of movement of a body in the given environment within a given time period;
determining a deviation from a reference pattern of movement of the body in the given environment; and
sending instructions to raise an alert if a predetermined extent of deviation is determined.
65. The method of claim 64, wherein the given environment is a mapped given environment, the given environment having been mapped according to any of the methods of claims 2-20, or 24-53.
66. The method of claim 64 or claim 65, wherein the reference pattern of movement is selected based on a relevance of one or more of (i) an age/gender of the body compared to the reference body, (ii) a condition/diagnosis/state of the body compared to a condition/diagnosis of the reference body, (iii) a time of year that the pattern of movement is determined compared to a time of year that the reference pattern of movement was determined, (iv) a geolocation of the body compared to a geolocation of the reference body, (v) a specified event of the body compared to a specified event of the reference body, (vi) environmental conditions associated with the body compared to reference environmental conditions, (vii) gender of the body compared to a gender of the reference body, (viii) cultural background of the body compared to a cultural background of the reference body, (ix) DNA mapping of the body compared to DNA mapping of the reference body, (x) biomarker of the body compared to a biomarker of the reference body, and (xi) medication being taken by the body compared to a medication taken by the reference body.
67. The method of any of claims 64-66, further comprising obtaining one or more of physiological data about the body at the time of monitoring the pattern of movement, and contextual data about the given environment at the time of monitoring the pattern of movement.
68. The method of any of claims 64-67, further comprising determining whether one or more of the physiological data and the contextual data deviate from a respective predefined threshold level, and sending instructions for raising an alarm if the predefined threshold level is deviated therefrom.
69. A method for determining a position of a person in a given environment, the method comprising: emitting, by a plurality of mapping devices, radio frequency (RF) signals in the given environment; receiving, by the plurality of mapping devices, reflected RF signals corresponding to the RF signals, wherein the reflected RF signals comprise signals reflected from the person in the given environment; determining, based on the reflected RF, a plurality of estimated positions of the person in the given environment; selecting the position from the plurality of estimated positions of the person in the given environment; and determining, based on the position and movement of the person, an activity being performed by the person.
70. The method of claim 69, further comprising: identifying a plurality of rooms in the given environment; and determining, based on the selected position, that the person is in a room of the plurality of rooms.
71. The method of claim 70, wherein there are no mapping devices within the room of the plurality of rooms.
72. The method of any one of claims 69-71, further comprising: emitting and receiving wireless signals in the given environment, from the plurality of mapping devices; measuring times of flight of the wireless signals; and determining, based on the times of flight, a distance between each mapping device of the plurality of mapping devices.
73. The method of any one of claims 69-71, further comprising: emitting and receiving wireless signals in the given environment, from the plurality of mapping devices; measuring signal strengths of the wireless signals; and determining, based on the signal strengths, a distance between each mapping device of the plurality of mapping devices.
74. The method of claim 72, further comprising triangulating, based on the distance between each mapping device of the plurality of mapping devices, a location of each mapping device of the plurality of mapping devices.
75. The method of claim 74, further comprising defining a coordinate system comprising the location of each mapping device, and wherein the position is in the coordinate system.
76. The method of any one of claims 69-75, further comprising receiving, from each mapping device of the plurality of mapping devices, a distance between the person and the respective mapping device.
77. The method of claim 76, wherein the determining the plurality of estimated positions comprises, determining, based on the distances between the person and the mapping devices, the plurality of estimated positions.
78. The method of claim 76, further comprising receiving from each mapping device of the plurality of mapping devices, an indication of accuracy of the distance between the person and the respective mapping device.
79. The method of claim 78, wherein the selecting the position of the plurality of estimated positions is based on the indications of accuracy.
80. A method for predicting an activity of a person in a given environment, the method comprising: emitting, by a plurality of mapping devices, radio frequency (RF) signals in the given environment; receiving, by the plurality of mapping devices, reflected RF signals corresponding to the RF signals, wherein the reflected RF signals comprise signals reflected from the person in the given environment; determining a signature corresponding to the reflected RF signals; labeling the signature with an activity or an event; and using the labeled signature to train a machine learning algorithm (MLA).
</claims>
</document>
