<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F119/18,G06F30/00,G06F30/15
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LLOYD’S REGISTER GROUP LIMITED
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZAAIJER, Sebastiaan
THOMAS, Toby
LINDOP, Nathan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67386222
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DESIGN ASSURANCE
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus comprises a rules application program interface (API) configured to receive, from a computer-aided design (CAD) module, facts about at least part of a vessel or vessel-related structure as modelled in a computer model, and to transmit the facts to a rules engine; and a rules engine configured to apply a set of design rules to the facts to determine whether the computer model is in compliance with the design rules, the set of design rules comprising both implicit and explicit dependencies between design rules, and to output a determination of whether the computer model is in compliance with the set of design rules.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising:
a rules application program interface (API) configured to receive, from a computer-aided design (CAD) module, facts about at least part of a vessel or vesselrelated structure as modelled in a computer model, and to transmit the facts to a rules engine; and
a rules engine configured to apply a set of design rules to the facts to determine whether the computer model is in compliance with the design rules, the set of design rules comprising both implicit and explicit dependencies between design rules, and to output a determination of whether the computer model is in compliance with the set of design rules.
2. An apparatus according to claim 1 , further comprising the CAD module, wherein the CAD module configured to perform computer-aided modelling to obtain the computer model, and wherein the computer model is a model of at least part of a vessel or vessel-related structure.
3. An apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the set of design rules comprises a plurality of structural rules implementing implicit dependencies between design rules.
4. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the structural rules are configured to conditionally enable and/or disable further rules of the set of design of design rules.
5. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein:
the rules engine is further configured to identify at least one part of the model that is not in compliance with the set of design rules;
the rules API is further configured to transmit to the CAD module information regarding the at the least one part of the model that is determined not to be in compliance; and
the CAD module is configured to highlight the at least one part of the model that is determined not to be in compliance.
6. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the applying of the set of design rules to the facts comprises iteratively applying rules of the set of rules in accordance with implicit and/or explicit dependencies.
7. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the applying of the set of design rules to the facts comprises at least one of: forward chaining, backward chaining.
8. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the applying of the set of design rules is in response to a change in the model and/or a change in a value of at least one parameter of the model.
9. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the rules engine is further configured to query the set of rules to generate a document that is representative of a subset of the set of rules, the document comprising the subset of rules and dependencies of the subset of rules.
10. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the subset comprises rules that have been applied to the facts by the rules engine, optionally wherein the document further comprises inputs and/or outputs for each rule that has been applied to the facts.
11. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the rules engine is further configured to repeatedly query the set of design rules to obtain a procedural system explicitly encoding all dependencies between the entire set of design rules.
12. A method for assessing a computer model of at least part of a vessel or vesselrelated structure, the method comprising:
receiving, by a rules application program interface (API), facts about the at least part of the vessel or vessel-related structure as modelled in the computer model;
transmitting, by the rules API, the facts to a rules engine;
applying, by the rules engine, a set of design rules to the facts to determine whether the computer model is in compliance with the design rules, the set of design rules comprising both implicit and explicit dependencies between design rules; and outputting, by the rules engine, a determination of whether the computer model is in compliance with the set of design rules.
13. A computer program product comprising instructions which, when the program is executed by a computer, cause the computer to carry out the method of claim 12.
14. A method for assessing a computer model of at least part of a vessel or vesselrelated structure, the method comprising:
receiving initial facts about the vessel or vessel-related structure;
selecting or constructing a dependency map that comprises or represents a set of design rules to be applied to the model, wherein the selecting or constructing of the dependency map is in dependence on the initial facts;
applying the set of design rules to the model to determine whether the model is in compliance with the design rules; and
highlighting at least one part of the model to indicate whether the at least one part is in compliance with the set of design rules.
15. A method according to Claim 14, wherein the constructing of the dependency map comprises:
selecting first design rules from a design rules database in dependence on the initial facts; and
using the first design rules to select further design rules and/or determine further facts.
16. A method according to Claim 15, wherein the design rules database comprises a master set of rules, and the set of design rules applied to the model is a subset of the master set of rules.
17. A method according to Claim 15 or Claim 16, wherein the constructing of the dependency map further comprises requesting further facts about the vessel from a user, wherein the requesting of the further facts is based on the initial facts and/or the first design rules.
18. A method according to any of Claims 14 to 17, wherein the constructing of the dependency map is performed in real time.
19. A method according to any of Claims 14 to 18, wherein the constructing of the dependency map comprises an iterative selection of successive design rules.
20. A method according to Claim 19, wherein the constructing of the dependency map comprises an iterative selection of design rules in real time, and wherein each of the design rules is applied in real time as it is selected.
21. A method according to any of Claims 14 to 20, wherein the constructing of the dependency map is performed by an expert system.
22. A method according to any of Claims 14 to 21 , wherein the constructing of the dependency map comprises at least one of: forward chaining, backward chaining.
23. A method according to any of Claims 14 to 22, wherein each of the design rules comprises at least one of: a selection of a rule category, an if-then relationship, an equation, a validation, a version.
24. A method according to any of Claims 14 to 23, wherein the initial facts comprise at least one of a vessel category, a vessel type, a vessel use, a vessel cargo, a vesselrelated structure category, a vessel-related structure type, a vessel-related structure use.
25. A method according to any of Claims 14 to 24, wherein the applying of the set of design rules to the model comprises determining further facts from the model and validating the obtained further facts.
26. A method according to any of Claims 14 to 25, wherein the applying of the set of design rules comprises determining further facts from the model and comparing the initial facts and/or the further facts to limits.
27. A method according to any of Claims 14 to 26, wherein the applying of the set of design rules is in real time.
28. A method according to any of Claims 14 to 27, wherein the applying of the set of design rules is in response to a change in the model and/or a change in a value of at least one parameter of the model.
29. A method according to any of Claims 14 to 28, further comprising determining at least one non-compliance and outputting information about the at least one noncompliance.
30. A method according to any of Claims 14 to 29, further comprising displaying the dependency map or information representative of or derived from the dependency map.
31. A computer program product comprising instructions which, when the program is executed by a computer, cause the computer to carry out the method of any of Claims 14 to 30.
32. A computer program product according to Claim 31 , further comprising instructions for creating the computer model of the at least part of a vessel or vesselrelated structure.
33. An apparatus comprising:
a CAD module configured to perform computer-aided modelling to obtain a model of at least part of a vessel or vessel-related structure;
a rules engine configured to:
receive initial facts about the vessel or vessel-related structure;
select or construct a dependency map that comprises or represents a set of design rules to be applied to the model, wherein the selecting or constructing of the dependence map is in dependence on the initial facts;
apply the set of design rules to the model to determine whether the model is in compliance with the design rules; and
return a determination of whether the model is in compliance to the CAD module;
wherein the CAD module is further configured to highlight at least one part of the model to indicate whether the at least one part is in compliance with the set of vessel design rules.
34. An apparatus according to Claim 33, wherein the rules engine comprises an expert system configured to select or construct the dependency map in dependence on the initial facts.
35. An apparatus according to Claim 33 or Claim 34, comprising a memory configured to cache the dependency map for future re-use.
36. An apparatus according to any of Claims 33 to 35, wherein the rules engine is configured to select the dependency map from a set of cached dependency maps.
37. An apparatus according to any of Claims 33 to 36, wherein the rules engine is configured to construct the dependency map by iterative selection of successive rules in real time.
38. An apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 12 or 33 to 37, wherein the vessel comprises at least one of: a ship, an offshore unit, a naval ship, a special service craft, a submersible, a diving system, a catamaran, a trimaran and/or the vessel-related structure comprises at least one of a floating dock, a linkspan, a marine lifting apparatus, an offshore structure.
</claims>
</document>
