<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61F2/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COAPT
</assignee>

<inventors>
CUMMINS, FRANK DANIEL II
HARGROVE, LEVI JOHN
LOCK, BLAIR ANDREW
THOMPSON, JOHN ARTHUR IV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72042208
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTROMYOGRAPHIC CONTROL SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR THE COACHING OF EXOPROSTHETIC USERS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are described for the coaching of users through successful calibration of a myoelectric prosthetic controller. The systems and methods are comprised of, and/or utilize, hardware and software components to input and analyze electromyography (EMG) based signals in association with movements, and to calibrate and output feedback about the signals. The hardware is further comprised of an apparatus for the detection of EMG signals, a prosthesis, an indicator, and a user interface. The software is further comprised of a user interface, a pattern recognition component, a calibration procedure, and a feedback mechanism. The systems and methods facilitate calibration of a myoelectric controller and provides the user with feedback about the calibration including information of the signal inputs and outputs, and messages about connected hardware and how to optimize signal data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electromyographic control system configured to coach prosthetic users to calibrate prosthetic devices, the electromyographic control system comprising:
a myoelectric prosthetic controller configured to control a prosthetic device;
an electromyographic software component communicatively coupled to a plurality of electrodes in myoelectric contact with a user, wherein the electromyograph software component is configured to perform an analysis of electromyographic (EMG) signal data of the user, the EMG signal data received from the plurality of electrodes; and
a user interface configured to provide, based on the analysis of the EMG signal data, a feedback indication to the user as to a calibration quality of the EMG signal data,
wherein the user interface is configured to initiate a calibration procedure to calibrate the myoelectric prosthetic controller, and
wherein the user interface comprises at least one of:
(i) a button user interface including a calibration button, or
(ii) a virtual user interface configured to display the feedback indication as at least one of: (a) a quality metric corresponding to the calibration quality of the EMG signal data, or (b) a message corresponding to the calibration quality of the EMG signal data.
2. The electromyographic control system of claim 1, wherein the message comprises at least one of (a) an indication of a cause for a non-optimal signal data input of the EMG signal data, or (b) a recommended procedure for optimizing signal data input.
3. The electromyographic control system of claim 1,
wherein the calibration procedure is initiated during a calibration session,
wherein the virtual user interface provides a recommended procedure for optimizing signal data input, and
wherein a further calibration procedure is initiated from the user interface during a further calibration session to recalibrate the myoelectric prosthetic controller based on the recommended procedure.
4. The electromyographic control system of claim 3, wherein the further calibration session is configured to facilitate at least one of (a) deleting EMG signal data corresponding to one or more data sets or movements, (b) adding EMG signal data corresponding to one or more data sets or movements, (c) replacing EMG signal data corresponding to one or more data sets or movements with new EMG signal data.
5. The electromyographic control system of claim 1, wherein the myoelectric prosthetic controller is calibrated to control the prosthetic device based on the EMG signal data.
6. The electromyographic control system of claim 1, wherein the calibration button is configured to provide the feedback indication by at least one of an auditory stimulus, a tactile stimulus, or a visual stimulus.
7. The electromyographic control system of claim 1, wherein virtual user interface displays a visualization of the EMG signal data in real time.
8. The electromyographic control system of claim 1,
wherein the calibration procedure comprises the virtual user interface instructing the user to perform one or more indicated motions in relation to the prosthetic device, and
wherein the one or more indicated motions produce the EMG signal data as received from the plurality of electrodes.
9. The electromyographic control system of claim 8, wherein the virtual user interface is configured to receive one or more selections indicating at least one of the one or more indicated motions for the user to perform.
10. The electromyographic control system of claim 1, wherein the electromyographic software component further comprises a pattern recognition component configured to analyze the EMG signal data of the user, the pattern recognition component further configured to identify or categorize the EMG signal data of the user based on a particular motion performed by the user.
11. The electromyographic control system of claim 10, wherein the pattern recognition component comprises an adaptive machine learning component configured to determine the particular motion performed by the user based on the EMG signal data of the user.
12. The electromyographic control system of claim 11, wherein the adaptive machine learning component is further configured to determine an appropriate feedback indication based on the EMG signal data of the user.
13. The electromyographic control system of claim 1, wherein the user interface is configured to reset calibration data of the user to calibrate the myoelectric prosthetic controller.
14. An electromyographic control method for coaching prosthetic users to calibrate prosthetic devices, the electromyographic control method comprising:
receiving, by an electromyographic software component communicatively coupled to a plurality of electrodes in myoelectric contact with a user, electromyographic (EMG) signal data from the plurality of electrodes;
analyzing, by the electromyograph software component, the EMG signal data of the user; providing to a user interface, based on analyzing the EMG signal data, a feedback indication to the user as to a calibration quality of the EMG signal data; and
initiating, based on the calibration quality of the EMG signal data, a calibration procedure to calibrate a myoelectric prosthetic controller, the myoelectric prosthetic controller configured to control a prosthetic device,
wherein the user interface comprises at least one of:
(i) a button user interface including a calibration button, or
(ii) a virtual user interface configured to display the feedback indication as at least one of: (a) a quality metric corresponding to the calibration quality of the EMG signal data, or (b) a message corresponding to the calibration quality of the EMG signal data.
15. The electromyographic control method of claim 14,
wherein the calibration procedure is initiated during a calibration session,
wherein the virtual user interface provides a recommended procedure for optimizing signal data input, and wherein a further calibration procedure is initiated from the user interface during a further calibration session to recalibrate the myoelectric prosthetic controller based on the recommended procedure.
16. The electromyographic control method of claim 14,
wherein the calibration procedure comprises the virtual user interface instructing the user to perform one or more indicated motions in relation to the prosthetic device, and
wherein the one or more indicated motions produce the EMG signal data as received from the plurality of electrodes.
17. The electromyographic control method of claim 14, wherein the
electromyographic software component further comprises a pattern recognition component configured to analyze the EMG signal data of the user, the pattern recognition component further configured to identify or categorize the EMG signal data of the user based on a particular motion performed by the user.
18. The electromyographic control method of claim 17, wherein the pattern
recognition component comprises an adaptive machine learning component configured to determine the particular motion performed by the user based on the EMG signal data of the user.
19. A tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions for coaching prosthetic users to calibrate prosthetic devices, that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to:
receive, by an electromyographic software component communicatively coupled to a plurality of electrodes in myoelectric contact with a user, electromyographic (EMG) data from the plurality of electrodes;
analyze, by the electromyograph software component, the EMG signal data of the user; provide to a user interface, based on analyzing the EMG signal data, a feedback indication to the user as to a calibration quality of the EMG signal data; and
initiate, based on the calibration quality of the EMG signal data, a calibration procedure to calibrate a myoelectric prosthetic controller, the myoelectric prosthetic controller configured to control a prosthetic device, wherein the user interface comprises at least one of:
(i) a button user interface including a calibration button, or
(ii) a virtual user interface configured to display the feedback indication as at least one of: (a) a quality metric corresponding to the calibration quality of the EMG signal data, or (b) a message corresponding to the calibration quality of the EMG signal data.
20. The tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19,
wherein the calibration procedure is initiated during a calibration session,
wherein the virtual user interface provides a recommended procedure for optimizing signal data input, and
wherein a further calibration procedure is initiated from the user interface during a further calibration session to recalibrate the myoelectric prosthetic controller based on the recommended procedure.
</claims>
</document>
