<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61C11/00,A61C7/00,G06T15/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALTA SMILES, LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
GIEGERICH, GARY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73289269
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ANALYSIS AND PREDICTION MODEL FOR ORTHODONTIC TREATMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A system for providing orthodontic treatment to a patient wherein a general dentist receives direction from a consultant orthodontist. The system includes a network configured to assign the consultant orthodontist to the general dentist. The network includes a central server with a patient database. The patient database includes a first patient's dental record of a first patient and a plurality of additional patients' historical dental records of a plurality of additional patients. The network also includes an analysis and prediction module. The analysis and prediction module is configured to access the first patient's dental record and the plurality of additional patients' historical dental records prior to initiation of treatment of the first patient to compare and contrast similar dental records of the additional patients' historical dental records to the first patient's dental records to predict timing and outcome for dental treatment of the first patient.
</abstract>

<claims>
I/We claim:
1. A system for providing orthodontic treatment to a patient wherein a general dentist receives direction, including at least one of general and specific instructions from a consultant orthodontist, the system comprising:
a network configured to assign the consultant orthodontist to the general dentist, wherein the consultant orthodontist is located remote from the general dentist, the network including a central server with a patient database, the patient database including a first dental record of a first patient and a plurality of additional dental records of a plurality of additional patients, the network also including an analysis and prediction module, the analysis and prediction module configured to access the first dental record and at least one of the plurality of additional dental records prior to initiation of treatment of the first patient to compare and contrast the first dental record and the at least one of the plurality of additional dental records to predict timing and outcome for dental treatment of the first patient.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising:
a communication device configured to provide real-time conferencing between the general dentist and the consultant orthodontist.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the analysis and prediction module utilizes artificial intelligence and machine learning to predict an impact of prescribed treatments on the first patient's jaw and teeth and expected timeframes for changes, the analysis and prediction module also configured to predict a range of outcomes for the first patient, the first dental record including images taken by the patient and received by the network from the patient.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the network receives physical properties of the first patient's mouth during treatment, the physical properties of the first patient's mouth compared to the first patient's dental record and the plurality of additional patient's historical dental records to predict additional outcomes for the first patient.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the physical properties of the first patient's mouth include size and shape of a mandibular bone, size and shape of maxillary bones, distances between the first patient's teeth, tooth root structure, including length and angle of the tooth root structure, dentition of the first patient's teeth, including, number of teeth, size of teeth and presence of baby teeth, the first patient's age, periodontal issues of the first patient, profile of the first patient's face, including a distance between a nose and a chin of the first patient, position of a tooth relative to a gum line of the first patient.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of additional dental records includes dental records of actual patients and dental records of simulated patients.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of additional dental records are comprised of dental records of simulated patients.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of additional dental records are comprised of dental records of actual patients.
9. A system for providing orthodontic treatment to a patient, wherein a general dentist receives direction from a consultant orthodontist, the system comprising:
an imaging device configured to capture at least one image of arches of a first patient;
a first communication device configured to control the imaging device and display the at least one image for the general dentist;
a network configured to transmit the at least one image to a remote location, the consultant orthodontist in communication with the remote location; and
a second communication device connected to the network, the second communication device configured to display the at least one image transmitted by the network for the consultant orthodontist.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the imaging device is comprised of at least one of a scanner, a digital camera, a 3D scanner, an intraoral scanner, and a video recorder.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the first and second communication devices are further configured to communicate with one another through the network.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the first and second communication devices are further configured to audio-visually communicate with one another through the network.
13. A method for providing orthodontic treatment to a patient, wherein a general dentist receives direction from a consultant orthodontist, the method comprising: capturing at least one image of arches of a first patient with an imaging device at a first location associated with the general dentist;
displaying the at least one image on a first communication device at a first location;
transmitting the at least one image via a network to a second location associated with the consultant orthodontist;
displaying the at least one image on a second communication device at the second location; determining, by a consulting orthodontist at the second location, a treatment plan based on the at least one image;
transmitting the treatment plan to the first communication device at the first location; and applying, by the general dentist at the first location, dental hardware to one or more of the teeth of the arches of the first patient.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one image of arches of the first patient is taken one of at a first appointment at the first location and by the patient prior to the first
appointment.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the imaging device is one of a scanner, a digital camera, a 3D scanner, an intraoral scanner, and a video recorder.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the treatment plan is transmitted from the second communication device through the network to the first communication device.
17. The method of claim 13, further comprising:
audiovisual communication between the consultant orthodontist and the general dentist, the audiovisual communication conducted between the second communication device and the first communication device.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the dental hardware comprises braces, the braces comprise traditional braces, lingual braces, self-ligating braces, molar tube braces orthodontic wires, inter-arch elastics, common ties, luggage loops, power chains, coil springs and ligatures.
19. The method of claim 13, further comprising:
initiating a request for a consultation with the consultant orthodontist by the general dentist with the first communication device.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the request for a consultation is initiated automatically in response to transmitting the at least one image to the second location.
21. The method of claim 13, further comprising:
capturing, at a second appointment, at least one additional image of the arches of the first patient with the imaging device at the first location;
transmitting the at least one additional image to the second location;
comparing the at least one additional image to the at least one image on the second communication device at the second location;
determining, by the consultant orthodontist at the second location, modifications to the treatment plan based on the at least one additional image;
transmitting the modifications to the treatment plan to the general dentist at the first location; and
modifying or adjusting, by the general dentist at the first location, the dental hardware. AMENDED CLAIMS
received by the International Bureau on 27 August 2020 (27.08.20)
I/We claim:
1. A system for providing orthodontic treatment to a patient wherein a general dentist receives direction, including at least one of general and specific instructions from a consultant orthodontist, the system comprising:
a network configured to assign the consultant orthodontist to the general dentist, wherein the consultant orthodontist is located remote from the general dentist, the network including a central server with a patient database, the patient database including a first dental record of a first patient and a plurality of additional dental records of a plurality of additional patients, the network also including an analysis and prediction module, the analysis and prediction module configured to access the first dental record and at least one of the plurality of additional dental records prior to initiation of treatment of the first patient to compare and contrast the first dental record and the at least one of the plurality of additional dental records to predict timing and outcome for dental treatment of the first patient, the network receives physical properties of the first patient's mouth during treatment, the physical properties of the first patient's mouth compared to the first dental record and the plurality of additional dental records to predict additional outcomes for the first patient, the physical properties of the first patient's mouth include size and shape of a mandibular bone, size and shape of a maxillary bone, distances between the first patient's teeth, tooth root structure, including length and angle of the tooth root structure, dentition of the first patient's teeth, including, number of teeth, size of teeth and presence of baby teeth, the first patient's age, periodontal issues of the first patient, profile of the first patient's face, including a distance between a nose and a chin of the first patient, and position of a tooth relative to a gum line of the first patient.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising:
a communication device configured to provide real-time conferencing between the general dentist and the consultant orthodontist.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the analysis and prediction module utilizes artificial intelligence and machine learning to predict an impact of prescribed treatments on the first patient's jaw and teeth and expected timeframes for changes, the analysis and prediction module also configured to predict a range of outcomes for the first patient, the first dental record including images taken by the patient and received by the network from the patient.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of additional dental records includes dental records of actual patients and dental records of simulated patients.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of additional dental records are comprised of dental records of simulated patients.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of additional dental records are comprised of dental records of actual patients.
7. A method for providing orthodontic treatment to a patient, wherein a general dentist receives direction from a consultant orthodontist, the method comprising:
capturing at least one image of arches of a first patient with an imaging device at a first location associated with the general dentist;
displaying the at least one image on a first communication device at a first location;
transmitting the at least one image via a network to a second location associated with the consultant orthodontist;
displaying the at least one image on a second communication device at the second location; determining, by a consulting orthodontist at the second location, a treatment plan based on the at least one image;
transmitting the treatment plan to the first communication device at the first location; and applying, by the general dentist at the first location, dental hardware to one or more of the teeth of the arches of the first patient;
capturing, at a second appointment, at least one additional image of the arches of the first patient with the imaging device at the first location;
transmitting the at least one additional image to the second location;
comparing the at least one additional image to the at least one image on the second communication device at the second location;
determining, by the consultant orthodontist at the second location, modifications to the treatment plan based on the at least one additional image;
transmitting the modifications to the treatment plan to the general dentist at the first location; and
modifying or adjusting, by the general dentist at the first location, the dental hardware.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the at least one image of arches of the first patient is taken one of at a first appointment at the first location and by the patient prior to the first appointment.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the imaging device is one of a scanner, a digital camera, a 3D scanner, an intraoral scanner, and a video recorder.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the treatment plan is transmitted from the second communication device through the network to the first communication device.
11. The method of claim 7, further comprising:
audiovisual communication between the consultant orthodontist and the general dentist, the audiovisual communication conducted between the second communication device and the first communication device.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the dental hardware comprises braces, the braces comprise traditional braces, lingual braces, self-ligating braces, molar tube braces, orthodontic wires, inter-arch elastics, common ties, luggage loops, power chains, coil springs and ligatures.
13. The method of claim 7, further comprising:
initiating a request for a consultation with the consultant orthodontist by the general dentist with the first communication device.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the request for a consultation is initiated automatically in response to transmitting the at least one image to the second location.
15. The method of claim 7, wherein the consultant orthodontist is comprised of the network including an analysis and prediction module.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the analysis and prediction module is able to recommend and predict outcomes of the first patient being treated based on historical dental records of the first patient.
17. The method of claim 7, wherein the dental hardware comprises wires bonded directly to the teeth to minimize shifting of the teeth during and post treatment.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein the dental hardware comprises braces, the braces comprising at least one of traditional braces, lingual braces, self-ligating braces, molar tube braces, orthodontic wires, inter-arch elastics, common ties, luggage loops, power chains, coil springs and ligatures.
</claims>
</document>
