<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W24/08,H04W84/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SEMICONDUCTOR COMPONENTS INDUSTRIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
DMITRIEV VLADIMIR
RANGARAJAN, RAGHURAM
ROUHI, ALI
CAMILLE, Jean-Paul
NAUMOV, Sergey
LATIF, Imran
KINDER, Richard
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72423215
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REMOTE WIRELESS SNIFFER MANAGEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
An example method may include receiving, from a wireless sniffer, sniffer data for a window of time, where the sniffer data may include wireless signal data. The method may also include obtaining corresponding access point data from an access point in a wireless network for at least part of the window of time for which the sniffer data is received. The method may additionally include analyzing the sniffer data and the corresponding access point data to assess performance of the wireless network.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method comprising:
receiving, from a wireless sniffer, sniffer data for a window of time, the sniffer data including wireless signal data;
obtaining corresponding access point data from an access point in a wireless network for at least part of the window of time for which the sniffer data is received; and analyzing the sniffer data and the corresponding access point data to assess performance of the wireless network.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting a message to the access point to cause the access point to change a setting in the access point based on the analysis of the sniffer data and the corresponding access point data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the message to cause the access point to change the setting causes the access point to perform at least one of increasing broadcast power, decreasing broadcast power, changing a channel or frequency on which the access point broadcasts, changing channel bandwidth, toggling between multi-user, multiple-input, multiple-output (MU-MIMO) and single-user (SU)-MIMO, switching on or off transmission beam-forming to a client device, changing a receiving sensitivity, changing Aggregated MAC Protocol Data Unit (AMPDU)/ Aggregated MAC Service Data Unit (AMSDU) aggregation sizes, or power-cycling the access point. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting a message to the wireless sniffer to cause the wireless sniffer to change a mode of operation based on the analysis of the sniffer data and the corresponding access point data.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the message to cause the wireless sniffer to change the mode of operation causes the wireless sniffer to perform one of changing a channel or frequency on which the wireless sniffer collects data, changing a duration during which the wireless sniffer collects data, or imposing a filter on operation of the wireless sniffer.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving a notification of an error event at a premise with the wireless network; and
sending a trigger to the wireless sniffer in response to the receiving the notification of the error event, the trigger causing the wireless sniffer to report wireless signal data.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
detecting an error event based on data from at least one of the access point, the wireless sniffer, or a station utilizing the wireless network; and
sending a trigger to the wireless sniffer in response to detecting the error event, the trigger causing the wireless sniffer to report wireless signal data.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the error event is detected based on data from a plurality of access points, the method further comprising receiving the data from the plurality of access points within the wireless network, each of the plurality of access points including a plurality of association messages, dissociation messages, or combinations thereof, within a threshold time.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting a message to a station utilizing the wireless network to cause the station to change a setting in the station based on the analysis of the sniffer data and the corresponding access point data.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the message to cause the station to change the setting in the station causes the station to perform at least one of suppressing a powersaving feature, changing settings of a wireless network card or chip, disabling and reenabling the wireless network card or chip, or power-cycling the station.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the wireless sniffer is configured to continuously obtain wireless signal data regardless of whether or not a trigger is sent to the wireless sniffer.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the wireless sniffer is configured to periodically send the obtained data regardless of whether or not the trigger is sent to the wireless sniffer.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising debugging an issue with the performance of the wireless network based on the analysis of the sniffer data and the corresponding access point data.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the debugging includes a series of scripts with iterative operations informed by the analysis of the sniffer data and the corresponding access point data, the method further comprising transmitting a message to change a mode of operation to one of the access point, the wireless sniffer, or a station utilizing the wireless network.
15. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media containing instructions that, in response to being executed by one or more processors, cause a system to perform operations comprising:
receiving, from a wireless sniffer, sniffer data for a window of time, the sniffer data including wireless signal data;
obtaining corresponding access point data from an access point in a wireless network for at least part of the window of time for which the sniffer data is received; and analyzing the sniffer data and the corresponding access point data to assess performance of the wireless network.
16. The computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise:
receiving a notification of an error event at a premise with the wireless network; and
sending a trigger to the wireless sniffer in response to the receiving the notification of the error event, the trigger causing the wireless sniffer to report wireless signal data.
17. The computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise:
detecting an error event based on data from at least one of the access point, the wireless sniffer, or a station utilizing the wireless network; and
sending a trigger to the wireless sniffer in response to detecting the error event, the trigger causing the wireless sniffer to report wireless signal data.
18. A system comprising:
one or more processors; and
one or more non-transitory computer-readable media containing instructions that, in response to being executed by one or more processors, cause the system to perform operations comprising:
receiving, from a wireless sniffer, sniffer data for a window of time, the sniffer data including wireless signal data;
obtaining corresponding access point data from an access point in a wireless network for at least part of the window of time for which the sniffer data is received; and
analyzing the sniffer data and the corresponding access point data to assess performance of the wireless network. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise:
receiving a notification of an error event at a premise with the wireless network; and
sending a trigger to the wireless sniffer in response to the receiving the notification of the error event, the trigger causing the wireless sniffer to report wireless signal data.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise:
detecting an error event based on data from at least one of the access point, the wireless sniffer, or a station utilizing the wireless network; and
sending a trigger to the wireless sniffer in response to detecting the error event, the trigger causing the wireless sniffer to report wireless signal data.
</claims>
</document>
