<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WATERS TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CARNEIRO, JOHN
DUMAS, ROBERT J.
EARLE, RICHARD
LAMBORGHINI, DAVID
LEBEAU, AARON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71944233
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES FOR ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENT PERFORMANCE DIAGNOSTICS
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques and apparatus for diagnostic processes for analytical instruments are described. In one embodiment, for example, an apparatus may include at least one memory, and logic coupled to the at least one memory. The logic may be configured to receive diagnostic information associated with at least one analytical instrument, and process the diagnostic information using a computational model to generate at least one diagnostic model for at least one diagnostic. Other embodiments are described.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising:
at least one memory; and
logic coupled to the at least one memory, the logic to:
receive diagnostic information associated with at least one analytical instrument, and
process the diagnostic information using a computational model to generate at least one diagnostic model for at least one diagnostic.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, the diagnostic information comprising standard operating information for the at least one diagnostic.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, the diagnostic information comprising abnormal operating information for the at least one diagnostic
4. The apparatus of either of claim 2 or 3, the logic to receive at least one status indicator for the diagnostic information, the at least one status indicator to indicate whether the diagnostic information is standard or abnormal.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, the logic to generate the at least one diagnostic model by training the computational model with the standard operating information based on the at least one status indicator to model standard operating conditions of the at least one diagnostic.
6. The apparatus of claim 4, the logic to generate the at least one diagnostic model by training the computational model with the abnormal operating information based on the at least one status indicator to model abnormal operating conditions of the at least one diagnostic.
7. The apparatus of claim 4, the logic to generate the at least one diagnostic model by training the computational model with the standard operating information and the abnormal operating information based on the at least one status indicator to model standard and abnormal operating conditions of the at least one diagnostic.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, the logic to receive operating information associated with the at least one diagnostic.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, the logic to process the diagnostic information using the at least one diagnostic model to generate an operating value for the diagnostic.
10. The apparatus of claim 8, the logic to update the at least one diagnostic model using the operating information.
11. The apparatus of claim 9, the operating value to indicate whether the diagnostic is standard or abnormal.
12. The apparatus of claim 9, the operating value to indicate a percentage standard or a percentage abnormal for the diagnostic.
13. The apparatus of claim 1, the logic to access configuration information for determining inputs or outputs for the at least one diagnostic model.
14. The apparatus of claim 1, the at least one analytical instrument comprising at least one of a scientific laboratory instrument, a chromatography system, a liquid chromatography system, a gas chromatography system, a mass analyzer, a mass spectrometer, or an ion mobility spectrometer.
15. The apparatus of claim 1, the diagnostic information comprising at least one of operating information or analysis information .
16. The apparatus of claim 1, the diagnostic information comprising operating information associated with a component of the at least one analytical instrument.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, the operating information comprising component configuration information for configuring operation of the component.
18. The apparatus of claim 16, the operating information comprising component operating information associated with operation of the component.
19. The apparatus of claim 16, the logic to receive the operating information via at least one data channel in communication with the component.
20. The apparatus of claim 16, the logic to receive the operating information via at least one sensor in communication with the component.
21. The apparatus of claim 16, the logic to receive the operating information via at least one configuration file for the component.
22. The apparatus of claim 16, the logic to receive the operating information during a test ran of the at least one analytical instrument.
23. The apparatus of claim 16, the logic to receive the operating information during an analytical ran of the at least one analytical instrument.
24. The apparatus of claim 16, the component comprising at least one of a pump, a fluid supply, an accumulator, a valve, a check valve, a solenoid valve, a motor, an encoder, an actuator, a sensor, a power supply, a seal, a chromatography column, a detector, an electrode, a heating element, or a cooling element.
25. The apparatus of claim 16, the component operating information comprising at least one of a flow rate, a pressure, a temperature, a fluid volume, a voltage, an amperage, a position, or a state.
26. The apparatus of claim 1, the at least one diagnostic comprising an operating characteristic of the at least one analytical instrument.
27. The apparatus of claim 1, the at least one diagnostic comprising an operating characteristic of a component of the at least one analytical instrument.
28. The apparatus of claim 1, the diagnostic information comprising analysis information comprising information associated with an analysis output generated by the at least one analytical instrument.
29. The apparatus of claim 28, the analysis output comprising at least one of a chromatogram or a mass spectra.
30. The apparatus of claim 28, the analysis information comprising at least one of peak retention time, peak area, peak shape, peak width, system pressure, or number of peaks.
31. The apparatus of claim 28, the logic to process the analysis information using the at least one diagnostic model to determine a failure indicator.
32. The apparatus of claim 28, the failure indicator indicating a change from a benchmark value associated with the analysis information.
33. The apparatus of claim 28, the analysis information comprising one of a
chromatogram or a mass spectra, the failure indicator indicating one of a plurality of failure indicator categories, the failure indicator categories comprising one or more of a change in peak retention time, a change in peak area, a change in peak shape, a change in peak width, a change in system pressure, a change in a number of peaks.
34. The apparatus of claim 31, the logic to determine at least one cause associated with the failure indicator.
35. The apparatus of claim 31, the logic to perform a testing sequence based on the failure indicator to determine at least one cause associated with the failure indicator.
36. The apparatus of claim 31, the logic to determine at least one failure fingerprint associated with the failure indicator.
37. The apparatus of claim 1, the computational model comprising at least one of a deep learning (DL) computational model, a neural network, a convolutional neural network (CNN), a recurrent neural network (RNN), or a multilayer perceptron (MLP) model.
38. The apparatus of claim 1, the logic to present a diagnosis on a display device operably coupled to the logic.
39. The apparatus of claim 1, the at least one model comprising at least one input and at least one output.
40. The apparatus of claim 1, the at least one input comprising a data channel of a component of the at least one analytical instrument associated with the diagnostic.
41. A computer-implemented method comprising, by a logic according to the apparatus of any of claims 2-40:
receiving diagnostic information associated with at least one analytical instrument, and
processing the diagnostic information using a computational model to generate at least one diagnostic model for at least one diagnostic.
42. A system comprising the apparatus according to any of claims 2-40, the at least one analytical instrument comprising a plurality of analytical instruments.
43. The system according to claim 40, the plurality of analytical instruments comprising at least one of a chromatography system and a mass analyzer system.
44. A computer-implemented method comprising, by a system controller of an apparatus: capturing training operating data for a component of an analytical instrument;
generating diagnosis data by indicating whether the operating data is standard or abnormal;
generating a diagnosis model via training a computational model using the diagnosis data;
receiving real-time operating data for the component; and
predicting at least one diagnosis for the component by processing the real-time operating data using the diagnosis model.
45. An apparatus, comprising: at least one memory; and
logic coupled to the at least one memory, the logic to:
receive training operating information for an operating characteristic of a component of an analytical instrument,
receive at least one training indicator to designate whether the training operating information is standard or abnormal for the operating characteristic,
generate diagnosis information based on the operating information and the at least one training indicator, and
generate a diagnosis model for the operating characteristic by training a
computational model using the diagnosis information·
</claims>
</document>
