<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/17,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ESSENLIX CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
DING WEI
TIAN JUN
WU, MINGQUAN
LI HONGBING
CHOU WU
LI XING
CHOU, STEPHEN
ZHANG YUECHENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72667405
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ASSAY ACCURACY AND RELIABILITY IMPROVEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention is related to, among other things, the devices and methods that improve the accuracy and reliability of an assay, even when the assay device and/or the operation of the assay device has certain errors, and in some embodiments the errors are random.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for improving the accuracy of an assay that detects an analyte in a sample, wherein one or more parameters of the assay have a random variation, the method comprising:
(a) detecting, using the assay, the analyte in the sample, generating a detection result;
(b) determining trustworthiness of the detection result by (i) imaging the sample in the assay and (ii) processing the image(s) using an algorithm; and
(c) reporting the detection result, only when the trustworthiness meets a predetermined threshold.
2. An apparatus for improving the accuracy of an assay that detects an analyte in a sample, wherein one or more parameters of the assay have a random variation, the apparatus comprising:
(a) an assay that detects the analyte in the sample to generating a detection result, wherein the assay has a sample holder; and
(b) an imager that images the sample in the sample holder; and
(c) a non-transitory storage medium that stores an algorithm that determines, using the images, the trustworthiness of the detection result.
3. The method in any prior claim further comprising using one or more monitoring marks on a sample holder on the assay and imaging the monitoring marks in the images for determination of the trustworthiness, wherein the monitoring marks have a predetermined optical property in the manufacturing of the sample holder.
4. The apparatus in any prior claim further comprising one or more monitoring marks on the sample holder, wherein the monitoring marks have a predetermined optical property in the manufacturing of the sample holder and are imaged in the images for determination of the trustworthiness.
5. A method for improving the accuracy of an image-based assay that detects an analyte in a sample, wherein the assay has an optical system with a distortion, the method comprising:
(a) having a sample holder having a sample contact surface, wherein (i) a sample forming a thin layer of 200 nm thick or less on the sample contact surface, and (ii) one or more monitoring marks on the sample on the sample contact surface, wherein the monitoring marks have a first set of parameters predetermined during the manufacturing of the sample holder; (b) using the optical system of the assay to take one or more images of the sample holder together with the monitoring marks, wherein the monitoring marks having a second set of parameters in the images;
(c) processing the one or more images using a processor, wherein the processor detects distortion of the optical system by using the algorithm and the first set and the second set of the parameters.
6. A apparatus for improving the accuracy of an image-based assay that detects an analyte in a sample, wherein the assay has an optical system with a distortion, the apparatus comprising:
(a) a sample holder having a sample contact surface, wherein (i) a sample forming a thin layer of 200 nm thick or less on the sample contact surface, and (ii) one or more monitoring marks on the sample on the sample contact surface, wherein the monitoring marks have a first set of parameters predetermined during the manufacturing of the sample holder;
(b) an optical system of the assay to take one or more images of the sample in the sample holder together with the monitoring marks, wherein the monitoring marks having a second set of parameters in the images;
(c) a processor with a non-transitory storage medium that stores an algorithm that process the one or more images and correct distortion of the optical system by using the algorithm and the first set and the second set of the parameters.
7. The method and apparatus of any prior claim, wherein the algorithm is a machine learning model.
8. The method and apparatus of any prior claim, wherein the trustworthiness comprising (1) edge of blood, (2) air bubble in the blood, (3) too small blood volume or too much blood volume, (4) blood cells under the spacer, (5) aggregated blood cells, (6) lysed blood cells, (7) over exposure image of the sample, (8) under exposure image of the sample, (8) poor focus of the sample, (9) optical system error as wrong lever position, (10) not closed card, (12) wrong card as card without spacer, (12) dust in the card, (14) oil in the card, (14) dirty out of the focus plane one the card, (15) card not in right position inside the reader, (16) empty card, (17) manufacturing error in the card, (18) wrong card for other application, (19) dried blood, (20) expired card, (21) large variation of distribution of blood cells, (22) none blood sample or (23) none targeted blood sample.
9. The method and apparatus of any prior claim, wherein the algorithm is machine learning.
10. The method and apparatus of any prior claim, wherein the sample comprises at least one of parameters that has a random variation, wherein the parameter comprises having dusts, air bubble, non-sample materials, or any combination of thereof.
1 1. The method and apparatus of any prior claim, wherein the assay is a cellular assay, immunoassay, nucleic acid assay, colorimetric assay, luminescence assay, or any combination of thereof.
12. The method and apparatus of any prior claim, wherein the assay device comprises two plates facing each other with a gap, wherein at least a part of the sample is inside of the gap.
13. The method and apparatus of any prior claim, wherein the assay device comprises a QMAX, comprising two plates movable to each other and spacers that regulate the spacing between the plates.
14. The method and apparatus of any prior claim, wherein some of the monitoring structures are periodically arranged.
15. The method and apparatus of any prior claim, wherein the sample is selected from cells, tissues, bodily fluids, and stool.
16. The apparatus and the method of any prior claim, wherein the sample is amniotic fluid, aqueous humour, vitreous humour, blood (e.g., whole blood, fractionated blood, plasma, serum, etc.), breast milk, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), cerumen (earwax), chyle, chime, endolymph, perilymph, feces, gastric acid, gastric juice, lymph, mucus (including nasal drainage and phlegm), pericardial fluid, peritoneal fluid, pleural fluid, pus, rheum, saliva, sebum (skin oil), semen, sputum, sweat, synovial fluid, tears, vomit, urine, or exhaled breath condensate.
17. The apparatus and the method of any prior claim, wherein the analyte comprising a molecule (e.g., a protein, peptides, DNA, RNA, nucleic acid, or other molecule), a cell, a tissue, a virus, and a nanoparticle.
18. The apparatus and the method of any prior claim, wherein the samples ar that are non-flowable but deformable.
19. The apparatus and the method of any prior claim, wherein the algorithm is machine learning, artificial intelligence, statistical methods, or a combination of thereof.
20. The apparatus and method of any prior embodiment, wherein the spacers are the monitoring mark, wherein the spacers have a substantially uniform height that is equal to or less than 200 microns, and a fixed inter-spacer-distance (ISD).
21. The apparatus and method of any prior claim, wherein the monitoring mark is used for estimating the TLD (true-lateral-dimension) and true volume estimation.
22. The apparatus and method of any prior claim, wherein step (b) further comprises an image segmentation for image-based assay.
23. The method and apparatus of any prior claim, wherein step (b) further comprises a focus checking in image-based assay.
24. The method and apparatus of any prior claim, wherein step (b) further comprises an Evenness of analyte distribution in the sample.
25. The method and apparatus of any prior claim, wherein step (b) further comprises an analyze and detection for aggregated analytes in the sample.
26. The method and apparatus of any prior claim, wherein step (b) further comprises an analyze for dry-texture in the image of the sample in the sample.
27. The method and apparatus of any prior claim, wherein step (b) further comprises an analyze for defects in the sample.
28. The method and apparatus of any prior claim, wherein step (b) further comprises a correction of camera parameters and conditions as distortion removal, temperature correction, brightness correction, contrast correction.
</claims>
</document>
