<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/18,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WISMULLER, Axel, W.E.
</assignee>

<inventors>
WISMULLER, Axel
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71899808
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND DEVICE FOR DETERMINING A MEASURE OF CAUSAL INFLUENCE BETWEEN COMPONENTS OF COMPLEX SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a computer-implemented method for determining a measure of the causal interdependence of a source dataset S and a target dataset Y in the simultaneous presence of a non-empty confounding dataset B. The method includes a dimensional modification step to reduce the complexity of the data and an augmentation step to add information to the dimensionally modified data without a significant increase in size or complexity of the data. The augmented dimensionally modified data is used to calculate a measure of the causality or relatedness between the source dataset S and the target dataset Y. The method enables linear or nonlinear causality analysis of high-dimension multivariate time-series or features datasets, such as time-series datasets generated by functional MRI full-brain scans.
</abstract>

<claims>
CLAMS
1. A computer-implemented method for determining a measure of the causal interdependence of a source dataset S and a target dataset Y in the simultaneous presence of a non-empty confounding dataset B, the confounding dataset B not being the source dataset S and not being the target dataset Y, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) calculating at least one of the following dimensionally modified representations (aa) and (ab):
(aa) a dimensionally modified representation ri; of one of the following three datasets (1), (2), and (3): (1) the confounding dataset B, (2) the target data set Y, and (3) the union of the confounding dataset B and the target dataset Y, whereby the representation ri; does not include information about the source dataset S, and
(ab) a dimensionally modified representation nc of at least one of the following datasets (1), (2), (3), and (4): (1) the source dataset S, (2) the union of the source dataset S and the confounding dataset B, (3) the union of the source dataset S and the target dataset Y, and (4) the union of the source dataset S, the confounding dataset B, and the target dataset Y;
(b) constructing at least one of the following augmented dimensionally modified representations iti; or mc by:
(ba) constructing an augmented dimensionally modified representation iti; that does not contain information about the source dataset S by augmenting a dimensionally modified representation ri; with information about at least one of the following datasets (1), (2), and (3): (1) the target dataset Y, (2) the confounding dataset B, and (3) the union of the target dataset Y and the confounding dataset B; and/or
(bb) constructing an augmented dimensionally modified representation mc that contains information about the source dataset S by:
(bba) augmenting the dimensionally modified representation nc with information about at least one of the following datasets (1), (2), (3), and (4): (1) the source dataset S, (2) the confounding dataset B, (3) the target dataset Y, and (4) any union of at least two of the datasets S, B, and Y; or
(bbb) augmenting the dimensionally modified representation ri; or the augmented dimensionally modified representation iti; with information about the source dataset S; and (c) calculating a measure of causal interdependence of the source dataset S and the target dataset Y using at least one of the augmented dimensionally modified representations Hi; or mc, whereby information about the confounding data set B is used:
(1) directly, or
(2) indirectly by having the information about the confounding data set B having been included in the representations rij, nc, itij, or mc, which are used for calculating a measure of causal interdependence of the source dataset S and the target dataset Y.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises:
calculating estimation errors that compare estimated and actual values of the target dataset Y, or
calculating information-theoretic quantities that characterize information exchange between the source dataset S and the target dataset Y, such as transfer entropy, cross-entropy, corr-entropy, mutual information, or conditional mutual information.
3. The method of claims 1, wherein the calculation of a dimensionally modified representation ri; is based on performing the calculation of a dimensionally modified representation nc in such a way that information about the source dataset S is eliminated.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the calculation of the dimensionally modified representations ri; or nc is performed in such a way that information about the target dataset Y or the confounding dataset B, or both, is eliminated from ri; or nc.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein step (c) comprises:
calculating quantities y that provide information about the target dataset Y without using information about the source dataset S by basing the calculations ofy.
(i) on the dimensionally modified representation rij, or
(ii) on the augmented dimensionally modified representation n^; and calculating quantities y that provide information about the target dataset Y using information about the source dataset S by basing the calculations of .
(iii) on the dimensionally modified representation nc, or
(iv) on the augmented dimensionally modified representation mc; and the calculation of a measure of causal interdependence of the source dataset S and the target dataset Y is based on both quantities and y.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein quantities y and y are estimated values of the target dataset Y, whereby the calculation of a measure of causal interdependence of the source dataset S and the target dataset Y is based on the calculation of quantities that compare estimation errors of the estimated values and the estimated values y in estimating the target dataset Y.
7. The method of claim 5 wherein the quantities andy provide statistical information about the target dataset Y that is used to calculate information-theoretic measures that characterize information exchange between the source dataset S and the target dataset Y, such as transfer entropy, cross-entropy, corr-entropy, mutual information, or conditional mutual information.
8. The method of claims 5, wherein calculating a measure of causal interdependence between the source dataset X and the target dataset Y comprises:
calculating Granger causality, such as by calculating Granger causality indices or /- statistic.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein:
a complete dataset Nc is defined as:
the union of the source dataset S and the confounding dataset B, or
the union of the source dataset S and the target dataset Y, or
the union of the source dataset S, the confounding dataset B, and the target dataset Y; and
step (a) comprises the steps of:
removing the source dataset S from the complete dataset Nc to form the incomplete dataset N;; and
calculating a dimensionally modified representation of N; to form rij .
10. The method of claim 9 comprising the steps of:
iterating over a non-empty and at least two-element subset P of the complete dataset Nc, and for each iteration:
assigning one or more different non-empty subsets of P as the source dataset S;
removing that source dataset S from the complete dataset Nc to form an incomplete dataset N; that includes the confounding dataset B; and calculating the measure of causal interdependence of the source dataset S and a target dataset Y by performing steps (a)-(c), wherein step (a) comprises calculating the dimensionally modified representation ri; from the incomplete dataset Nj.
11. The method of claim 9 comprising the steps of:
iterating over a non-empty and at least two-element subset Q of the complete dataset Nc, and for each iteration:
assigning one or more different non-empty subsets of Q as the target dataset Y; and
calculating a measure of causal interdependence of the source dataset S and the target dataset Y by performing steps(a)-(c).
12. The method of claim 10 or 11 wherein one dimensionally modified representation nc of the complete dataset Nc is calculated and used for more than one iteration by, in each iteration:
eliminating information about the source dataset S from nc; and/or
eliminating information about the target dataset Y from nc.
13. The method of claim 1 wherein a calculation of a dimensionally modified representation carried out as part of step (a) and/or step (b) includes performing: principal components analysis (PCA); single value decomposition (SVD); independent component analysis (ICA); clustering methods; kernel transformation; dimensionality reduction by autoencoders or their variants, e.g. variational autoencoders; divergence-based methods, such as stochastic neighbor embedding (SNE); exploratory observation machines (XOM); self organizing maps (SOM); or any linear or non-linear dimensionality reduction method.
14. The method of claim 1 wherein estimates of any non-empty subset or any union of any of the following data sets are calculated: target Y, source S, confounding data set B, dimensionally modified representations rij, nc, itij, or mc; and such calculations are performed using (i) linear methods, including, affine, autoregressive, such as MVAR, or any other linear regression methods; or (ii) non-linear methods, including, non-linear regression methods, feed-forward multi-layer perceptrons, e.g. trained by error-back-propagation, radial basis functions (RBF) neural networks or generalized radial basis functions (GRBF) neural networks, support vector regression, fuzzy logic, random forests, decision trees, recurrent neural networks, including, but not limited to Echo State Networks or LSTMs; or (iii) any type of local models, including, local linear models or local average models; (iv) any type of ordinary or partial differential equation solvers; or (v) any combination of different modeling approaches, including, combining approaches previously recited herein, committee machines, boosting, bootstrap aggregating, mixture-of-experts, and/or ensemble learning or ensemble methods.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein at least one of the following holds: (i) the used modeling approaches are IIV invariant, or (ii) a divide and conquer strategy is used, including, the use of radial basis functions or generalized radial basis functions neural networks, local models, or multidimensional regression techniques, or (iii) calculated measures of causal interdependence are used for network analysis, such as by using graph convolutional networks (GCN), calculation of graph-theoretic features, or community detection, such as by using non-metric clustering or Louvain method, or (iv) calculated measures of causal interdependence, or quantities derived thereof, are used as input to subsequent pattern recognition, such as classification or regression, tasks, including any supervised or unsupervised machine learning methods, such as GCN.
16. The method of claim 14 or 15 wherein estimates of any non-empty subset or any union of any of the following data sets are calculated: target Y, source S, confounding data set B, dimensionally modified representations rij, nc, itij, or mc; and such estimates are used for calculating quantities that characterize the target Y.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the calculation of quantities that characterize the target Y is based on inverting dimensional modification methods, such as inverting dimensionality reduction methods, including, inverse PCA, inverse SVD, or trained auto encoders for dimensionality reduction.
18. The method of claim 1 wherein quantities are calculated that statistically characterize the target Y, such as ensembles of estimates, frequency distributions, such as represented by histograms, estimates of probability distributions and/or their parameters, including, any type of statistical or information-theoretic measures between conditional source and target, such as transfer entropy or conditional mutual information.
19. The method of claim 1 wherein the calculation of a dimensionally modified representation of the source dataset S, the target dataset Y, or the confounding data set B includes a non-linear transformation, such as induced by a non-linear kernel derived from a clustering method; and such a calculated dimensionally modified representation serves as input to linear modeling methods, including, affine or MVAR modeling.
20. The method of claim 1 wherein step (c) comprises:
calculating a measure of causal influence of a source dataset S on a target dataset Y; or,
calculating a measure of causal influence of a target data set Y on a source dataset S.
21. The method of claim 1 wherein the source dataset S, the target dataset Y, and the confounding dataset B are each time-series datasets.
22. The method of claim 1 wherein the source dataset S, the target dataset Y, and the confounding dataset B are each features datasets.
23. The method of claim 1 wherein the source dataset S, the target dataset Y, the confounding dataset B, or any union of at least two of these datasets, defines a dataset X e RWxT, wherein the dataset X is an underdetermined data set with N > T.
24. The method of any one of the preceding claims 22 and 23 wherein the time-series or feature datasets are obtained by performing functional MRI; or pertain to science, technology, medicine, functional MRI, EEG, EKG, EEG, PET, CT, analysis of any multidimensional recordings in medicine, physiology or systems biology, econometrics, such as stock market or portfolio analysis, video analysis, robotics, seismology, astronomy, network connectivity analysis, including networks related to biological systems, communications, including web traffic or social media, or energy grids.
25. The method of any one of the preceding claims, in which the method steps are stored as tangible computer code and operable by a computer processor for computer implementation of the method.
26. Computer code stored in a tangible medium and operable by a computer processor for computer implementation of the method as recited in any one of the claims 1-24.
27. A device comprising:
one or more processors; and
one or more memories storing code executable by the processors to perform:
(a) reading a source dataset S, a target dataset Y, and a non-empty dataset B, the dataset B not being the source dataset S and not being the target dataset Y;
(b) calculating at least one of the following dimensionally modified representations (aa) and (ab): (aa) a dimensionally modified representation rij of one of the following three datasets (1), (2), and (3): (1) a confounding dataset B, (2) a target data set Y, and (3) a union of the confounding dataset B and the target dataset Y, whereby the representation ri; does not include information about the source dataset S, and
(ab) a dimensionally modified representation nc of at least one of the following datasets (1), (2), (3), and (4): (1) the source dataset S, (2) the union of the source dataset S and the confounding dataset B, (3) the union of the source dataset S and the target dataset Y, and (4) the union of the source dataset S, the confounding dataset B, and the target dataset Y;
(c) constructing at least one of the following augmented dimensionally modified representations iti; or mc by:
(ba) constructing an augmented dimensionally modified representation irij that does not contain information about the source dataset S by augmenting a dimensionally modified representation rij with information about at least one of the following datasets (1), (2), and (3): (1) the target dataset Y, (2) the confounding dataset B, and (3) the union of the target dataset Y and the confounding dataset B; and/or
(bb) constructing an augmented dimensionally modified representation mc that contains information about the source dataset S by:
(bba) augmenting the dimensionally modified representation nc with information about at least one of the following datasets (1), (2), (3), and (4): (1) the source dataset S, (2) the confounding dataset B, (3) the target dataset Y, and (4) any union of at least two of the datasets S, B, and Y; or
(bbb) augmenting the dimensionally modified representation ri; or the augmented dimensionally modified representation irij with information about the source dataset S; and
(d) calculating a measure of causal interdependence of the source dataset S and the target dataset Y using at least one of the augmented dimensionally modified representations irij or mc, whereby information about the confounding data set B is used:
(1) directly, or
(2) indirectly by having the information about the confounding data set B having been included in the representations rij, nc, itij, or mc, which are used for calculating a measure of causal interdependence of the source dataset S and the target dataset
Y
</claims>
</document>
