<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/10,G06Q30/06,G06Q40/02,G06Q40/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MARC BRANDIS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRANDIS, MARC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63914791
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ANALYZING A PROCESSING ENGINE OF A TRANSACTION-PROCESSING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to an electronic device and a method of operating an electronic device for analyzing a processing engine of a transaction-processing system (1). Determined are data records (200) related to transactions of the transaction- processing system (1), the data records (200) comprising one or more data fields (v, w, …). Determined are in an embodiment, on the basis of data fields representing interface identifiers of interfaces used for sending requests and receiving replies, associations between request and reply data records. Determined are, on the basis of the similarity or identity of the contents of one or more data fields (v, w, …), indicative associations between data records (200). Assigned are, on the basis of the contents of one or more data fields of the respective data records, association weight sums to the indicative associations (150). Determined are, on the basis of the respective association weight sums, data records being associated to each other. Data records being associated to each other belong to the same transaction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device (100) for analyzing a processing engine of a transaction processing system (1), the electronic device (100) being configured to: determine data records (200) related to transactions of the transaction-processing system (1), the data records (200) comprising one or more data fields (v, w, ...); determine, on the basis of the similarity or identity of the contents of one or more data fields (v, w, ...), indicative associations (150) between data records (200); assign, on the basis of the contents of one or more data fields of the respective data records, association weight sums to the indicative associations (150); determine, on the basis of the respective association weight sums, data records being associated to each other.
2. The electronic device (100) according to claim 1, further configured to subdivide the data records into a set of receive order data records, a set of send request data records, a set of receive reply data records, and optionally a set of send result data records, and to direct the indicative associations (150) from the send request data records or optionally the send result data records to the receive order data records or to the receive reply data records.
3. The electronic device (100) according to claim 2, further configured to determine send request data records and receive reply data records being associated to each other on the basis of a data field indicating an interface identifier and a data field indicating a unique request identifier, or on the basis of a data field indicating an interface identifier and contents of one or more data fields from the send request data record being replicated in the receive reply data record, or on the basis of a combination thereof.
4. The electronic device (100) according to one of claims 2 to 3, further configured to determine indicative associations (150) between data records on the basis of send request data records or send results data records containing one or more data fields with the same content as receive order data records or receive reply data records.
5. The electronic device (100) according to one of claims 1 to 4, further configured to assign association weight sums to the indicative associations (150) on the basis of the number of occurrences (#occurences) of the contents of one or more data fields (v, w, ...).
6. The electronic device (100) according to one of claims 1 to 5, further configured to assign association weight sums to the indicative associations (150) on the basis of a data field enabling determining a time difference (At) between respective data records (200).
7. The electronic device (100) according to one of claims 1 to 6, further configured to assign association weight sums to the indicative associations by applying one or more non-linear functions (f, g).
8. The electronic device (100) according to one of claims 1 to 7, further configured to assign a set of data records to a particular transaction.
9. The electronic device (100) according to one of claims 1 to 8, further configured to analyze data records in the form of one or more of: a comma separated list, an extended markup language, and a fixed binary record format.
10. The electronic device (100) according to one of claims 1 to 9, further configured to receive configuration data enabling subdividing the data records into a set of receive order data records, a set of send request data records, a set of receive reply data records, and optionally a set of send result data records.
11. A method of operating an electronic device (100) for analyzing a processing engine of a transaction-processing system (1), the electronic device (100) being configured to execute the method, the method comprising: determining data records (200) related to transactions of the transaction-processing system (1), the data records comprising one or more data fields (v, w, ...); determining, on the basis of the similarity or identity of the contents of one or more data fields (v, w, ...), indicative associations (150) between data records; assigning, on the basis of the contents of one or more data fields (v, w, ...) of the respective data records (200), association weight sums to the indicative associations (150); determining, on the basis of the respective association weight sums, data records being associated to each other.
12. The method according to claim 11, further comprising: subdividing the data records into a set of receive order data records, a set of send request data records, a set of receive reply data records, and a set of send result data records, and directing the indicative associations (150) from the send request data records or send result data records to the receive order data records or to the receive reply data records.
13. The method according to claim 12, further comprising: determining send request data records and receive reply data records being associated to each other on the basis of a data field indicating an interface identifier and a data field indicating a unique request identifier, or on the basis of a data field indicating an interface identifier and contents of one or more data fields from the send request data record being replicated in the receive reply data record, or on the basis of a combination thereof.
14. The method according to one of claims 11 to 13, further comprising: assigning association weight sums to the indicative associations on the basis of the number of occurrences (#occurrences) of the contents of one or more data fields (v, w, ...), and/or on the basis of a data field (v, w, ...) enabling determining a time difference (At) between respective data records (200).
15. The method according to one of claims 11 to 14, further comprising: assigning association weight sums to the indicative associations (150) by applying one or more non-linear functions (f, g).
16. The method according to one of claims 11 to 15, further comprising: assigning a set of data records to a particular transaction.
</claims>
</document>
