<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B23/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC SYSTEMS USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
SESHADRI, MUKUND
BHATTACHARYYA, AMITABHA
SINHA, BHASKAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70286007
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DETECTING AND PREDICTING FAULTS IN AN INDUSTRIAL PROCESS AUTOMATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for detecting and predicting faults in an industrial process automation system use trend data to forecast alerts and allow action to be taken before a problem occurs. The systems and methods provide fault/failure predictions that improve over time as more empirical data is collected for a related set of system components. The systems and methods may identify relationships among the components of a process automation system; identify and collect changes to system configuration; identify and collect data to inform reliability and predictive models; develop a domain-specific predictive model for one or more components that allows for component-based failure or degradation prediction; develop a system-predictive model that leverages reliability and criticality relationships, component-based predictions and operating parameters to predict the health of a part of or the entire process automation system; deliver a prioritized alert system; and identify root-cause failures of a component.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A monitoring system for an industrial plant, comprising:
one or more processors;
a storage unit communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and storing processor-executable instructions thereon that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the monitoring system to:
perform a process that inputs data files for the industrial plant, the data files containing data relating to nodes in the industrial plant, the data in each data file being in a different data format;
perform a process that extracts the data from the data files, the data being extracted including timestamp, device name, device health, and message content;
perform a process that converts the timestamp, device name, device health, and message content from the data files into a homogeneous format;
perform a process that extracts features from the converted timestamp, device name, device health, and message content using machine learning to recognize the features; and perform a process that identifies a node in the industrial plant that is experiencing an alarm using machine learning to recognize the node experiencing the alarm, the alarm indicating the node has failed or will fail within a specified amount of time.
2. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the processor-executable instructions further cause the monitoring system to perform a process that builds a network topology for the nodes in the industrial plant, the network topology establishing a hierarchy for the nodes in the industrial plant.
3. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the processor-executable instructions further cause the monitoring system to perform a process that identifies a root cause for the alarm using machine learning to recognize the root cause.
4. The monitoring system of claim 3, wherein the processor-executable instructions further cause the monitoring system to perform a process that estimates a probability for the root cause using machine learning calculate the probability.
5. The monitoring system of claim 4, wherein the processor-executable instructions further cause the monitoring system to perform a process that displays a time-to-failure for the alarm based on the probability for the root cause.
6. The monitoring system of claim 5, wherein the processor-executable instructions further cause the monitoring system to perform a process that graphically displays a severity level of the alarm based on time-to-failure for the alarm and/or impact of the alarm on plant operations.
7. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the processor-executable instructions further cause the monitoring system to perform a process that graphically displays all data within a specified time period for the node in the industrial plant that is experiencing an alarm.
8. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the processor-executable instructions further cause the monitoring system to perform a process that graphically displays all nodes in the industrial plant that are experiencing an alarm using machine learning to recognize the nodes.
9. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the processor-executable instructions further cause the monitoring system to perform a process that identifies a corrective action for the alarm from captured knowledge using machine learning to extract the corrective action, the captured knowledge including maintenance logs for the industrial plant.
10. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the processor-executable instructions further cause the monitoring system to extract features by performing a process that applies feature extraction rules to the converted timestamp, device name, device health, and message content using machine learning.
11. A method for monitoring an industrial plant, comprising:
inputting data files for the industrial plant, the data files containing data relating to nodes in the industrial plant, the data in each data file being in a different data format;
extracting the data from the data files, the data being extracted including timestamp, device name, device health, and message content;
converting the timestamp, device name, device health, and message content from the data files into a homogeneous format;
extracting features from the converted timestamp, device name, device health, and message content using machine learning to recognize the features; and
identifying a node in the industrial plant that is experiencing an alarm using machine learning to recognize the node experiencing the alarm, the alarm indicating the node has failed or will fail within a specified amount of time.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising building a network topology for the nodes in the industrial plant, the network topology establishing a hierarchy for the nodes in the industrial plant.
IB. The method of claim 11, further comprising identifying a root cause for the alarm using machine learning to recognize the root cause.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising estimating a probability for the root cause using machine learning calculate the probability.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising displaying a time-to-failure for the alarm based on the probability for the root cause.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising graphically displaying a severity level of the alarm based on time-to-failure for the alarm and/or impact of the alarm on plant operations.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising graphically displaying all data within a specified time period for the node in the industrial plant that is experiencing an alarm.
18. The method of claim 11, further comprising graphically displaying all nodes in the industrial plant that are experiencing an alarm using machine learning to recognize the nodes.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising identifying a corrective action for the alarm from captured knowledge using machine learning to extract the corrective action, the captured knowledge including maintenance logs for the industrial plant.
20. The method of claim 11, further comprising applying feature extraction rules to the converted timestamp, device name, device health, and message content using machine learning.
21. A computer-readable medium storing computer-readable instruction for causing one or more processors to perform a method according to any one of claims 11 through 20.
</claims>
</document>
