<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/12,G06K9/78
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HEWLETT-PACKARD DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PILLAI, KRISHNA PRASAD MURALEEDHARAN
SCHEESSELE EVAN
WRIGHT, ALLEN OWEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70463151
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SITUATIONALLY UNIQUE PRINTING EVENTS
</title>

<abstract>
An example apparatus includes: a communication interface to communicate with a camera and a printer; and a processor connected to the communication interface and a memory storing rules of an event that relies on printed materials, the processor to execute instructions stored in the memory. The instructions are to: monitor, using the camera, a live instance of the event that relies on the printed materials; determine, from images acquired by the camera, that a sequence of the printed materials used in the event by participants meets a threshold condition that conforms to the rules of the event; and, in response, control the printer to print additional printed material that conforms to the rules of the event, as stored in the memory, the additional printed material used to alter the event according to the rules, the additional printed material unassigned to any of the participants in the event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing device comprising:
a communication interface to communicate with a camera and a printer; and
a processor connected to the communication interface and a memory storing rules of an event that relies on printed materials, the processor to execute instructions stored in the memory, the instructions to:
monitor, using the camera, a live instance of the event that relies on the printed materials;
determine, from images acquired by the camera, that a sequence of the printed materials used in the event by participants meets a threshold condition that conforms to the rules of the event, as stored in the memory; and, in response,
control the printer to print additional printed material that conforms to the rules of the event, as stored in the memory, the additional printed material used to alter the event according to the rules, the additional printed material unassigned to any of the participants in the event.
2. The computing device of claim 1 , wherein the printed materials used in the event are playing cards, and the additional printed material includes an additional playing card.
3. The computing device of claim 1 , wherein the printed materials used in the event are three-dimensional figures, and the additional printed material includes an additional three-dimensional figure, the printer comprising a threedimensional printer.
4. The computing device of claim 1 , wherein the instructions are further to determine, from the images acquired by the camera, the sequence of the printed materials from a backside of each of the printed materials, the backside of each of the printed materials comprising an indication of a respective face side of the printed materials.
5. The computing device of claim 1 , wherein the instructions are further to monitor a state of the event based on the printed materials used in the event, the threshold condition related to the state of the event.
6. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium encoded with instructions executable by a processor radio of a computing device, the non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising:
instructions to: monitor, using a camera, a live instance of an event that relies on printed materials;
instructions to: determine, from images acquired by the camera, that a sequence of the printed materials used in the event meets a threshold condition that conforms to rules of the event, as stored in a memory; and, in response, instructions to: control a printer to print additional printed material that conforms to the rules of the event, as stored in the memory, the additional printed material used to alter the event according to the rules and according to information printed on the additional printed material, the additional printed material unassigned to any participants in the event.
7. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 6, further comprising instructions to: determine the information printed on the additional printed material based on the sequence of the printed materials.
8. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 6, further comprising instructions to: determine the information printed on the additional printed material based on the sequence of the printed materials and the rules of the event, as stored in the memory, the information to trigger a given state of the event.
9. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 6, further comprising instructions to: monitor a state of the event based on the printed materials used in the event, the threshold condition related to the state of the event.
10. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 6, further comprising instructions to: monitor a state of the event based on the printed materials used in the event, the threshold condition related to the state of the event, the state of the event being a final phase of the event.
1 1. A computing device comprising:
a communication interface to communicate with a camera and a printer; and
a processor connected to the communication interface and a memory storing rules of an event that relies on printed materials, the processor to execute instructions stored in the memory, the instructions to:
monitor, using the camera, a live instance of the event that relies on the printed materials;
determine, from images acquired by the camera, that a sequence of the printed materials used in the event meets a threshold condition that conforms to the rules of the event, as stored in the memory; in response, control the printer to print additional printed material that conforms to the rules of the event, as stored in the memory, the additional printed material used to change the rules of the event; and
store changed rules of the event in the memory.
12. The computing device of claim 1 1 , wherein the instructions are further to: determine, from images acquired by the camera, that the rules of the event or the changed rules of the event are being violated; and, in response, control the printer to provide an alert.
13. The computing device of claim 1 1 , wherein the communication interface is further to communicate with an augmented reality device used by a participant in the event, and wherein the instructions are further to:
control the augmented reality device to provide an animation of the printed materials used in the event.
14. The computing device of claim 1 1 , wherein the instructions are further to: control the printer to interrupt the event by providing a notification.
15. The computing device of claim 1 1 , wherein the instructions are further to determine, from the images acquired by the camera, the sequence of the printed materials from a backside or a face side of each of the printed materials, the backside of each of the printed materials comprising an indication of a respective face side of the printed materials.
</claims>
</document>
