<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F21V8/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RENSSELAER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
NARENDRAN, NADARAJAH
MOU, Xi
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73288792
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EDGE-LIT LIGHT PANEL
</title>

<abstract>
In an embodiment, there is provided a light guide for an edge-lit light panel. The light guide includes a first light coupling surface; a second light coupling surface; a first light output surface; and a second light output surface. The second light coupling surface opposes the first light coupling surface. The second light output surface opposes the first light output surface. The first light output surface and the second light output surface are coupled between the first light coupling surface and the second light coupling surface. Each light coupling surface is configured to receive incident light from a respective light source and to produce at least a portion of a batwing light beam inside the light guide. The at least a portion of the batwing light beam is concentrated adjacent the first light output surface, the first light output surface corresponding to a first light extraction surface.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A light guide for an edge-lit light panel, the light guide comprising:
a first light coupling surface;
a second light coupling surface opposing the first light coupling surface;
a first light output surface; and
a second light output surface opposing the first light output surface,
the first light output surface and the second light output surface coupled between the first light coupling surface and the second light coupling surface, and
each light coupling surface configured to receive incident light from a respective light source and to produce at least a portion of a batwing light beam inside the light guide, the at least a portion of the batwing light beam concentrated adjacent the first light output surface, the first light output surface corresponding to a first light extraction surface.
2. The light guide of claim 1, wherein each light coupling surface comprises at least one leg of a V groove.
3. The light guide of claim 1 or 2, wherein the first light extraction surface comprises a light extraction feature selected from the group comprising prismatic, spherical, cylindrical, conical and asymmetric.
4. The light guide of claim 1 or 2, wherein the first light extraction surface comprises a plurality of prismatic features having a separation, S, pitch, P and angle, m.
5. The light guide of claim 2, wherein each light coupling surface corresponds to a V groove and each V groove has an angle to with a maximum value of arctan (L/H), where L corresponds to a length of the light guide and H corresponds to a height of the light guide.
6. The light guide of claim 1 or 2, wherein the second light output surface corresponds to a second light extraction surface and each coupling surface is configured to produce a batwing light beam inside the light guide.
7. The light guide of claim 1 or 2, wherein the second light output surface corresponds to a reflective surface.
8. An edge-lit light panel comprising:
a plurality of light guides; and
a plurality of light sources,
each light guide comprising a first light coupling surface positioned relative to a first edge of the edge-lit light panel, a second light coupling surface opposing the first light coupling surface and positioned relative to a second edge of the edge-lit light panel, the second edge opposing the first edge, a first light output surface, and a second light output surface opposing the first light output surface, the first light output surface and the second light output surface coupled between the first light coupling surface and the second light coupling surface,
each light coupling surface configured to receive incident light from a respective light source and to produce at least a portion of a batwing light beam inside the light guide, the at least a portion of the batwing light beam concentrated adjacent the first light output surface, the first light output surface corresponding to a first light extraction surface.
9. The edge-lit light panel of claim 8, further comprising a plurality of light source reflectors, each light source reflector positioned relative to a respective light source and configured to reflect the emitted light from the light source onto the corresponding coupling surface of the light guide.
10. The edge-lit light panel of claim 8, further comprising a diffuse reflector positioned relative to the first light output surface or the second light output surface.
11. The edge-lit light panel according to any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein each light coupling surface comprises at least one leg of a V groove.
12. The edge-lit light panel according to any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein the first light extraction surface comprises a light extraction feature selected from the group comprising prismatic, spherical, cylindrical, conical and asymmetric.
13. The edge-lit light panel according to any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein the first light extraction surface comprises a plurality of prismatic features having a separation, S, pitch, P and angle, m.
14. The edge4it light panel according to any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein the second light output surface corresponds to a second light extraction surface and each coupling surface is configured to produce a batwing light beam inside the light guide.
15. The edge-lit light panel according to any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein each of the plurality of light sources is a light emitting diode (LED).
16. A lighting system comprising:
a light source controller;
an edge-lit light panel; and
a plurality of light source drivers,
the edge-lit light panel comprising a plurality of light guides, and a plurality of light sources, each light source driver configured to drive a respective light source based, at least in part, on a signal from the light source controller, each light guide comprising a first light coupling surface positioned relative to a first edge of the edge-lit light panel, a second light coupling surface opposing the first light coupling surface and positioned relative to a second edge of the edge-lit light panel, the second edge opposing the first edge, a first light output surface, and a second light output surface opposing the first light output surface, the first light output surface and the second light output surface coupled between the first light coupling surface and the second light coupling surface,
each light coupling surface configured to receive incident light from a respective light source and to produce at least a portion of a batwing light beam inside the light guide, the at least a portion of the batwing light beam concentrated adjacent the first light output surface, the first light output surface corresponding to a first light extraction surface.
17. The lighting system of claim 16, wherein the edge-lit light panel further comprises a diffuse reflector positioned relative to the first light output surface or the second light output surface.
18. The lighting system of claim 16, wherein each light coupling surface comprises at least one leg of a V groove..
19. The lighting system according to any one of claims 16 to 18, wherein the first light extraction surface comprises a light extraction feature selected from the group comprising prismatic, spherical, cylindrical, conical and asymmetric.
20. The lighting system according to any one of claims 16 to 18, wherein each of the plurality of light sources is a light emitting diode (LED).
</claims>
</document>
