<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16C60/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
RUNKANA, VENKATARAMANA
SINGH, KULDEEP
VAKKANTHAM, Phanibhargava
NISTALA, Sri Harsha
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74101174
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR OPTIMIZATION OF AGGLOMERATION OF ORES
</title>

<abstract>
Agglomeration process in agglomeration plants is quite sensitive to changes in input feed material characteristics. End-to-end optimization of the agglomerate process by combining all the units is difficult due to unique complexities and challenges associated with combining the individual process outputs. A method and system for optimizing the operation of an agglomeration plant has been provided. The system performs real time optimization on integrated wet agglomeration and thermal agglomeration process which subsequently increases the plant productivity and agglomerate quality and minimizes the operating cost and emissions from the plant. The optimization process involves various steps such as receiving data, pre-processing of data, prediction using physics-based and data-driven models of agglomeration plant, and optimization execution and configuration. The process also involves continuous monitoring of model performance and self-learning of the models in case of a performance drift. The system is also configured to estimate the key performance parameters of agglomeration plant.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A processor implemented method (700) for optimizing the operation of an agglomeration plant, the method comprising:
receiving a plurality of data as an input from one or more data sources of the agglomeration plant at a predetermined frequency, wherein the plurality of data comprises of a real-time and non-real-time data (702);
preprocessing, via one or more hardware processors, the plurality of data (704); obtaining, via the one or more hardware processors, simulated data using the preprocessed data and a plurality of soft sensors, wherein the simulated data is integrated with preprocessed data to obtain integrated data (706);
determining, via the one or more hardware processors, a first set of parameters using a physics-based wet agglomeration model and the integrated data (708);
determining, via the one or more hardware processors, a second set of parameters using physics-based and data-driven charging models, the first set of parameters and the integrated data (710);
determining, via the one or more hardware processors, a third set of parameters using a physics-based thermal agglomeration model, the first set of parameters, the second set of parameters and the integrated data (712);
determining, via the one or more hardware processors, a final set of parameters using a plurality of data-driven models, the first, the second and the third set of parameters, and the integrated data (714);
configuring, via the one or more hardware processors, an optimizer using the plurality of physics-based and data-driven models of the agglomeration plant to optimize a plurality of key performance parameters of the agglomeration plant (716); generating, via the one or more hardware processers, at least one recommendation using the configured optimizer, wherein the recommendations comprise of optimal settings of a plurality of manipulated variables (718); and
providing, via the one or more hardware processors, the generated recommendations to optimize the key performance parameters of the agglomeration plant (720).
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the data sources of the agglomeration plant comprise one or more of an agglomeration plant automation system, a data acquisition system, a data historian, a laboratory information management system, a manufacturing execution system or a manual input.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the preprocessing of data comprises identification and removal of outliers, imputation of missing data, and synchronization and integration of a plurality of variables from one or more data sources using the residence time of all the units of the agglomeration plant.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of soft sensors are physicsbased and data-driven soft sensors comprising of:
flow rates of input raw materials to the agglomeration plant,
size distribution of input feed mix,
mean diameter of input feed mix,
chemical composition of input feed mix and
moisture content of input feed mix.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first set of parameters comprises size distribution, mean diameter, chemical composition and water content of a wet agglomerate.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the second set of parameters comprises voidage and permeability of the wet agglomerate bed, the velocity of air through the wet agglomerate bed and a size and chemical species segregation profile of wet agglomerate bed.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the third set of parameters comprises:
distributions of temperature and a plurality of chemical species at different heights of the bed and lengths of a thermal agglomeration unit,
a velocity and flow rate of inlet air and gas at different lengths of the thermal agglomeration unit,
temperature, velocity and flow rate of outlet gas from different lengths of the thermal agglomeration unit,
a velocity and thickness of the flame front at different lengths of the thermal agglomeration unit,
temperature and flow rate of the exhaust gas from different lengths of the thermal agglomeration unit, length and location of burn through point in the thermal agglomeration unit, and temperature of agglomerate discharged from the thermal agglomeration unit.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the final set of parameters comprises:
productivity, yield, efficiency, fuel rate and percentage of undersized agglomerates from the agglomeration plant, and
size distribution, mean diameter, tumbler index, abrasion index, cold compressive strength, reduction degradation index, reducibility index, and softening melting parameters of the agglomerate.
9. The method according to claim 1, further comprising configuring the optimizer:
after a predefined time interval,
when the key performance indicators of the agglomeration plant cross the predefined thresholds, or
by manual intervention
10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of key performance parameters of the agglomeration plant comprises:
productivity, yield, efficiency, fuel rate and percentage of undersized agglomerates from the agglomeration plant,
size distribution, mean diameter, tumbler index, abrasion index, cold compressive strength, reduction degradation index, reducibility index, and softening melting parameters of the agglomerate,
granulation index and mean diameter of the wet agglomerate,
location of burn through point and maximum wind-box temperature in the thermal agglomeration unit,
temperature of waste gas entering the gas cleaning system,
pollutants in the waste gas, and
concentration of pollutants in the waste gas.
11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of manipulated variables of the agglomeration plant comprises flow rates of input feed materials, flow rates of additives, flow rate of water, temperature profile in the ignition furnace, flow rate of wet agglomerate, strand speed, bed height of wet agglomerate, and pressure drop in various sections of the thermal agglomeration unit.
12. The method according to claim 1, further comprising providing real-time water content of wet agglomerate from a moisture sensor, real-time size distribution of wet agglomerate from a particle analyzer and real-time temperature distribution in the thermal agglomeration unit from wireless temperature sensors to the process of determining second, third and final set of parameters, and self-learning.
13. The method according to claim 1, further comprising performing simulation tasks in an offline mode using the physics-based wet agglomeration model, the physics-based and data-driven charging models, the physics-based thermal agglomeration model and the plurality of data-driven models of the agglomeration plant.
14. The method according to claim 1, wherein the physics-based wet agglomeration model represents the mixing and particle layering process inside the wet agglomeration unit.
15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the physics-based charging model maps the relationship among the mean diameter of wet agglomerate, the bed height, pressure difference across the bed, velocity of air through the bed and voidage of the bed.
16. The method according to claim 1, wherein the physics-based thermal agglomeration model representing the various physical and chemical phenomena and reactions occurring in the thermal agglomeration unit.
17. The method according to claim 1, wherein the self-learning the plurality of physicsbased and data-driven models of the agglomeration plant comprising:
computing, via the one or more hardware processors, a model performance index for each of the plurality of physics-based and data-driven models in real-time by comparing the model outputs with the corresponding measured variables;
determining, via the one or more hardware processors, the models responsible for model performance index exceeding the pre-determined thresholds and triggering one method out of a plurality of self-learning methods based on the model type;
executing, via the one or more hardware processors, first type of self-learning method for the plant KPI models wherein the active models are re-trained using recent and historical data of the agglomeration plant to obtain re-trained models;
executing, via the one or more hardware processors, second type of self-learning method, wherein the active physics-based model of the thermal agglomeration unit is re-tuned in at least one level based on the sensitivity of tuning parameters to the model predictions, followed by the first type of self-learning method using recent and historical data of the agglomeration plant to obtain re-tuned and re-trained models; executing, via the one or more hardware processors, third type of self-learning method, wherein the active physics-based model of wet agglomeration and data-driven charging models are re-tuned and re-trained followed by the second type of selflearning method using recent and historical data of the agglomeration plant to obtain re-tuned and re-trained models ;
assessing, via the one or more hardware processors, the efficacy of executed self-learning methods by computing the model performance index using the predictions from the re-tuned and re-trained models with the corresponding measured variables; and
recommending, via the one or more hardware processors, at least one re-tuned and re-trained model for activation in the agglomeration plant wherein the model performance index of the at least one re-tuned and re-trained model is below the pre determined thresholds.
18. A system (100) for optimizing the operation of an agglomeration plant, the system comprising:
an input/output interface (106) for receiving a plurality of data as an input from one or more data sources of the agglomeration plant at a predetermined frequency, wherein the plurality of data comprises of a real-time and non-real-time data;
one or more hardware processors (110);
a memory (112) in communication with the one or more hardware processors, wherein the one or more first hardware processors are configured to execute programmed instructions stored in the one or more first memories, to:
preprocess the plurality of data;
obtain simulated data using the preprocessed data and a plurality of soft sensors, wherein the simulated data is integrated with preprocessed data to obtain integrated data;
determine a first set of parameters using a physics-based wet agglomeration model and the integrated data;
determine a second set of parameters using physics-based and datadriven charging models, the first set of parameters and the integrated data; determine a third set of parameters using a physics-based thermal agglomeration model, the first set of parameters, the second set of parameters and the integrated data;
determine a final set of parameters using a plurality of data-driven models, the first, the second and the third set of parameters, and the integrated data;
configure an optimizer using the plurality of physics-based and datadriven models of the agglomeration plant to optimize a plurality of key performance parameters of the agglomeration plant;
generate at least one recommendation using the configured optimizer, wherein the recommendations comprise of optimal settings of a plurality of manipulated variables; and
provide the generated recommendations to optimize the key performance parameters of the agglomeration plant.
19. The system according to claim 18 further comprises a moisture sensor to provide real time water content of the wet agglomerate.
20. The system according to claim 18 further comprises a particle size analyzer to provide real-time size distribution of wet agglomerate.
21. The system according to claim 18 further comprises a wireless bed temperature sensors to provide real-time temperature at different heights of the bed and lengths of the thermal agglomeration unit.
22. One or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums comprising one or more instructions which when executed by one or more hardware processors cause:
receiving a plurality of data as an input from one or more data sources of the agglomeration plant at a predetermined frequency, wherein the plurality of data comprises of a real-time and non-real-time data;
preprocessing the plurality of data;
obtaining simulated data using the preprocessed data and a plurality of soft sensors, wherein the simulated data is integrated with preprocessed data to obtain integrated data; determining a first set of parameters using a physics-based wet agglomeration model and the integrated data;
determining a second set of parameters using physics-based and data-driven charging models, the first set of parameters and the integrated data;
determining a third set of parameters using a physics-based thermal agglomeration model, the first set of parameters, the second set of parameters and the integrated data;
determining a final set of parameters using a plurality of data-driven models, the first, the second and the third set of parameters, and the integrated data;
configuring an optimizer using the plurality of physics-based and data-driven models of the agglomeration plant to optimize a plurality of key performance parameters of the agglomeration plant;
generating at least one recommendation using the configured optimizer, wherein the recommendations comprise of optimal settings of a plurality of manipulated variables; and
providing the generated recommendations to optimize the key performance parameters of the agglomeration plant.
</claims>
</document>
