<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,H04N21/2343,H04N21/254,H04N21/258,H04N21/278
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERILY LIFE SCIENCES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARRAL, JOËLLE
HABBECKE, MARTIN
JIN, XING
YANG LIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514635
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMPROVING SURGICAL VIDEO CONSUMPTION BY IDENTIFYING USEFUL SEGMENTS IN SURGICAL VIDEOS
</title>

<abstract>
One example method for identifying useful segments in surgical videos includes accessing a video of a surgical procedure and user activities of a plurality of users who have watched the video of the surgical procedure. The user activities include operations performed during playback of the video. The method further includes dividing the video into multiple segments and determining a popularity score for each of the multiple segments based on the operations. Useful segments are identified from the segments based on the popularity scores. The method further includes generating metadata for the video of the surgical procedure to include an indication of the identified useful segments and associating the metadata with the video of the surgical procedure.
</abstract>

<claims>
That which is claimed is:
1. A method comprising:
accessing a video of a surgical procedure;
accessing user activities of a plurality of users who have watched the video of the surgical procedure, the user activities comprising operations performed during playback of the video;
dividing the video into a plurality of segments;
determining a popularity score for each of the plurality of segments based on the operations;
identifying one or more useful segments from the plurality of segments based on the popularity scores;
generating metadata for the video of the surgical procedure to include an indication of the identified one or more useful segments; and
associating the metadata with the video of the surgical procedure.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the operations of the plurality of users comprise starting the video, stopping the video, fast-forwarding the video, replaying the video, skipping the video, editing the video, creating a clip from the video, commenting on the video, or bookmarking the video.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the popularity score is determined based on a number of users that watched a segment of the video, and wherein identifying the one or more useful segments of the video comprises:
in response to determining that the popularity score of segment meets or exceeds a threshold, identifying the segment of the video as a useful segment of the video.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the popularity score is determined based on a number of users that annotated a segment of the video, and wherein identifying the one or more useful segments of the video comprises:
in response to determining that the popularity score meets or exceeds a threshold, identifying the segment of the video as a useful segment of the video.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
identifying a portion of the video that does not contain a useful segment based on the operations of the plurality of users;
generating additional metadata for the video of the surgical procedure to include an indication of the identified portion of the video; and
associating the additional metadata with the video of the surgical procedure.
6. The method of claim 5,
wherein identifying the portion of the video comprises identifying a portion of the video that is not of interest to the plurality of the users based on the operations, and
wherein generating additional metadata for the video of the surgical procedure to include an indication of the identified portion of video comprises generating the additional metadata to indicate that the portion of the video is not to be played back in a normal speed of the video.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving a request to watch the video, the request comprising a watch time limit specifying the maximum amount of time that a user associated with the request will spend watching the video; and
generating an adapted video by combining one or more of the one or more useful segments to create the adaptive video having a time duration no greater than the watch time limit.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising:
generating and associating with the video of the surgical procedure additional metadata to include an indication of a subject contained in the identified one or more useful segments that is extracted based on machine learning techniques;
accessing a user preference associated with the user, the user preference specifying a subject that the user is interested in watching; and generating the adapted video by including, based on the additional metadata, the one or more useful segments of the video that contain the subject that the user is interested in watching.
9. A method comprising:
accessing a plurality of videos of a surgical procedure;
normalizing the plurality of videos to identify corresponding segments of the plurality of videos;
determining, for each video of the plurality of videos, a plurality of video segments;
identifying one or more useful segments in the plurality of videos based on common characteristics between corresponding video segments of the plurality of videos or based on different characteristics between corresponding video segments of the plurality of videos; and
generating metadata for the plurality of videos of the surgical procedure to include an indication of the identified one or more useful segments; and
associating the metadata with the plurality of videos of the surgical procedure.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the common characteristics of the plurality of videos comprise user activities of a plurality of users who have watched the plurality of videos, the user activities comprising operations of the plurality of users performed during playback of the plurality of videos.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising:
receiving a request to watch a video, the request comprising a watch time limit specifying the maximum amount of time that a user associated with the request will spend in watching the video; and
generating an adapted video by combining one or more of the one or more useful segments of the plurality of videos to create the adapted video having a time duration no greater than the watch time limit.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: accessing a user preference associated with the user, the user preference specifying a subject that the user is interested in watching; and
generating the adapted video by including the one or more useful segments of the plurality of videos that contain the subject that the user is interested in watching.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprising:
receiving a request to download a video to a surgical robot, the request specifying a size of the video to be downloaded and a surgical operation to be performed on the surgical robot;
identifying, from the one or more useful segments of the plurality of videos, a plurality of useful segments that are relevant to the surgical operation;
generating an adapted video based on the plurality of useful segments that has a size no greater than the size of the video to be downloaded to the surgical robot; and
transmitting the adapted video to the surgical robot.
14. A method comprising:
accessing a video;
monitoring operations performed by a plurality of users during playback of the video for each respective user of the plurality of users;
identifying one or more useful segments from the video based on the operations;
generating metadata for the video to include an indication of the identified one or more useful segments; and
associating the metadata with the video.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the video comprising a video of a surgical procedure.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein identifying one or more useful segments from the video based on the operations comprises: in response to determining that a number of users that watched a segment of the video meets or exceeds a threshold, identifying the segment of the video as a useful segment of the video.
17. The method of claim 14, further comprising:
receiving a request to watch the video, the request comprising a watch time limit specifying the maximum amount of time that a user associated with the request will spend watching the video; and
generating an adapted video by combining one or more of the one or more useful segments to create the adaptive video having a time duration no greater than the watch time limit.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising:
accessing a user preference associated with the user, the user preference specifying a subject that the user is interested in watching; and
generating the adapted video by including the one or more useful segments of the video that contain the subject that the user is interested in watching.
19. A computing device comprising:
a processor; and
a non-transitory computer-readable medium having processor-executable instructions stored thereupon, which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to:
access a video of a surgical procedure;
access user activities of a plurality of users who have watched the video of the surgical procedure, the user activities comprising operations performed during playback of the video;
divide the video into a plurality of segments;
determine a popularity score for each of the plurality of segments based on the operations;
identify one or more useful segments from the plurality of segments based on the popularity scores;
generate metadata for the video of the surgical procedure to include an indication of the identified one or more useful segments; and associate the metadata with the video of the surgical procedure.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising processorexecutable instructions to cause a processor to:
access a plurality of videos of a surgical procedure;
normalize the plurality of videos to identify corresponding segments of the plurality of videos;
determine, for each video of the plurality of videos, a plurality of video segments;
identify one or more useful segments in the plurality of videos based on common characteristics between corresponding video segments of the plurality of videos or based on different characteristics between corresponding video segments of the plurality of videos;
generate metadata for the plurality of videos of the surgical procedure to include an indication of the identified one or more useful segments; and
associate the metadata with the plurality of videos of the surgical procedure.
</claims>
</document>
