<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,H04W88/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHINTAKINDI, SUNIL
GIBSON, TIMOTHY W.
HAYES, HOWARD
JOHNSON, CALEB
KODALI, ANURADHA
LIKHTERMAN, ALEKSANDR
MADIGAN, REGINA
NAINALA, SRINIVAS
ORTIZ-ZABALA, JUAN
ROSANWO, SOTON AYODELE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69945964
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA PROCESSING SYSTEM WITH MACHINE LEARNING ENGINE TO PROVIDE OUTPUT GENERATION FUNCTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, computer-readable media, systems, and/or apparatuses for providing offer and insight generation functions are provided. For instance, user input may be received requesting generation of an offer. In response to receiving the request, an application may be transmitted to a device, such as a mobile device of a user. In some examples, the application may be executed by the device and may facilitate establishing a communication session with a third party system, identifying and extracting data from the third party system, and transmitting the extracted data to an entity for evaluation. In some examples, evaluation by the entity may include generating one or more insights, outputs and the like. In some arrangements, the evaluation may be performed using machine learning and, in some examples, may be performed in real-time or near real-time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system, comprising:
a first computing device including:
a first processing unit comprising a first processor; and
a first memory unit storing computer-executable instructions, and a second computing device including:
a second processing unit comprising a second processor; and
a second memory unit storing computer-executable instructions; wherein the computer-executable instructions of the first memory' unit, when executed by the first processing unit, cause the first computing device to:
receive, from the second computing device, an application for execution by the first computing device;
execute the application, executing the application including:
receive user input requesting initiation of a process to extract data of a user and generate an output based on the extracted data;
responsive to receiving the user input, confirm that location services are enabled on the first computing device;
receive an instruction to capture an image of photographic identification of the user;
capture, via an image capture device of the first computing device, the image of the photographic identification of the user;
store the captured image of the photographi c identification of the user; receive an instruction to self-capture an image of the user;
capture, via the image capture device, the image of the user, transmit the self-captured image of the user and the image of the photographic identification of the user to the second computing device for comparison and user authentication;
receive an indication that the user is authenticated based on the comparison of the captured image of the photographic identification of the user and the selfcaptured image of the user; responsive to receiving the indication that the user is authenticated, receive an instruction to capture a vehicle identification number of a vehicle associated with the user and for which the output is being generated;
capture, via the image capture device, the vehicle identification number, extract location data associated with the user, the location data including global positioning system coordinates for a plurality of location entries corresponding to a plurality of locations of the first computing device captured over a period of time;
transmit the location data and the captured vehicle identification number to the second computing device;
receive, from the second computing device, a plurality of user insights including the output including at least one offer; and
display the plurality of user insights and the output including the at least one offer.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computer-executable instructions of the second memory unit, when executed by the second processing unit, cause the second computing device to:
generate a plurality of user interfaces including the plurality of user insights and the at least one offer.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computer-executable instructions of the second memory unit, when executed by the second processing unit, cause the second computing device to:
receive, from a plurality of data sources, different types of data; aggregate the different types of data from the plurality of data sources; and generate, based on the aggregated different types of data from the plurality of data sources, the plurality of user insights.
4. The computing system of claim 1, further including instructions, that, when executed, cause the first computing device to: prior to executing the application on the first computing device, capturing, via a global positioning system of the computing device, location data for the plurality of locations of the first computing device over the period of time.
5. The computing system of claim 4, wherein the captured location data includes longitude and latitude coordinates and a time and date stamp
6. The computing system of claim 4, wherein the captured location data is uploaded to a third computing system for storage.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein capturing the image of the photographic identification of the user includes capturing an image of a first side of the photographic identification having an image of the user and scanning a machine readable code on the photogr aphi c i den tifi cati on .
8. The computing system of claim 1, wherein capturing the vehicle identification number includes scanning a machine readable code including the vehicle identification number.
9. The computing system of claim 1, wherein comparing the self-captured image of the user to the captured image of the photographic identification includes using facial recognition techniques to confirm an identity of the user.
10. A method, comprising:
by a computing device having at least one processor, a communication interface and memory storing computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the computing device, cause the computing device to:
receive user input requesting initiation of a process to extract data of a user and generate an output based on the extracted data;
responsive to receiving the user input, confirm that location services are enabled on the computing device;
receive, by the at least one processor, an instruction to capture an image of photographic identification of the user; capture, via an image capture device of the computing device, the image of the photographic identification of the user;
receive an instruction to self-capture an image of the user;
capture, via the image capture device, the image of the user;
transmit, by the at least one processor and via the communication interface, the self-captured image of the user and the image of the photographic identification of the user to a computing platform for comparison and user authentication;
receive, by the at least one processor and from the computing platform, an indication that the user is authenticated based on the comparison of the captured image of the photographic identifi cation of the user and the self-captured image of the user;
responsive to receiving the indication that the user is authenticated, receive, by the at least one processor, an instruction to capture a vehicle identification number of a vehicle associated with the user and for which the output is being generated;
capture, via the image capture device, the vehicle identification number;
extract, by the at least one processor, location data associated with the user, the location data including global positioning system coordinates for a plurality of location entries corresponding to a plurality of locations of the computing device captured over a period of time;
transmit the location data and the captured vehicle identification number to the computing platform;
receive, from the computing platform, a plurality of user insights including the output including at least one offer; and
display the plurality of user insights and the output including the at least one offer.
1 1. The method of claim 10, wherein displaying the plurality of user insights includes displaying a plurality of user interfaces including the plurality of user insights and the at least one offer.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of user insights is based on aggregated data from a plurality of different data sources including different types of data.
13. The method of claim 10, further including:
capturing, via a global positioning system of the computing device, location data for the plurality of locations of the first computing device over the period of time.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the captured location data includes longitude and latitude coordinates and a time and date stamp.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein capturing the image of the photographic identification of the user includes capturing an image of a first side of the photographic identification having an image of the user and scanning a machi ne readable code on the photographic identification.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein capturing the vehicle identification number includes scanning a machine readable code including the vehicle identification number.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein comparing the self-captured image of the user to the captured image of the photographic identification includes using facial recognition techniques to confirm the identity of the user.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein comparing the captured image of the user to the captured image of the photographic identification includes using facial recognition techniques to confirm the identity of the user.
19. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to:
receive user input requesting initiation of a process to extract data of a user and generate an output based on the extracted data;
responsive to receiving the user input, confirm that location services are enabled on the computing device;
receive an instruction to capture an image of photographic identification of the user; capture, via an image capture device of the computing device, the image of the photographic identification of the user;
receive an instruction to self-capture an image of the user; capture, via the image capture device, the image of the user;
transmit the self-captured image of the user and the image of the photographic identification of the user to a second computing device for comparison and user authentication; receive an indication that the user is authenticated based on the comparison of the captured image of the photographic identification of the user and the self-captured image of the user,
responsive to receiving the indication that the user is authenticated, receive an instruction to capture a vehicle identification number of a vehicle associated with the user and for which the output is being generated;
capture, via the image capture device, the vehicle identification number,
extract location data associated with the user, the location data including global positioning system coordinates for a plurality of location entries corresponding to a plurality of locations of the computing device captured over a period of time;
transmit the location data and the captured vehicle identification number to the second computing device,
receive, from the second computing device, a plurality of user insights including the output including at least one offer; and
display the plurality of user insights and the output including the at least one offer.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 19, wherein displaying the plurality of user insights includes displaying a plurality of user interlaces including the plurality of user insights and the at least one offer.
21 A computing platform, comprising:
a processing unit comprising a processor;
a communication interface; and
a memory unit storing computer-executable instructions, that, when executed by the processing unit, cause the computing platform to:
receive a request to generate an output;
generate an instruction to capture physical trait data of a user; transmit the instruction to a mobile device of the user; receive, from the mobile device, the captured physical trait data, wherein the physical trait data is captured via one or more sensors of the mobile device;
receive, from a first external source, pre-stored user data associated with the user, the pre-stored user data being captured and stored prior to receiving the request to generate the output:
receive, from a second external source, additional user data, and based on the received captured physical trait data, the received pre-stored user data and the received additional user data, generate, using machine learning, the output;
generate a user interface including the output; and
transmit the user interface to the mobile device for display on a display of the mobile device.
22. The computing platform of claim 21, wherein the captured physical trait data includes at least one of: heart rate and pulse.
23. The computing platform of claim 21, wherein the instruction to capture physical trait data of the user includes a request for the user to perform an activity with the mobile device.
24. The computing platform of claim 21, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to:
transmit, to the mobile device and in response to the request to generate an output, an application for execution on the mobile device.
25. The computing platform of claim 21, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to:
authenticate the user, including:
transmitting a request for the user to capture an image of a photographic identification;
receiving a captured image of the photographic identification; transmitting a request for the user to self-capture an image;
receiving the self-captured image; and comparing the image of the photographic identification to the self-captured image using facial recognition to determine whether the user is authenticated
26. The computing platform of claim 21 , wherein the pre-stored user data includes at least location data including a plurality of location entries corresponding to movement of the user with the mobile device.
27. The computing platform of claim 21 , wherein the additional user data includes at least one of: medical data of the user and prescription data of the user.
28. A computing device, comprising:
a processing unit comprising a processor;
a communication interface; and
a memory unit storing computer-executable instructions, which when executed by the processing unit, cause the computing device to:
execute an application on the computing device, executing the application including:
initiating a communication session with an external data source via the communication interface;
extracting, from the external data source, pre-stored user data;
transmitting the extracted, pre-stored user data to a computing platform, displaying, by a display of the computing device, a user interface including instructions for capturing one or more physical traits of the user;
capturing, via one or more sensors in the computing device, the one or more physical traits of the user;
transmitting, to the computing platform, the captured one or more physical traits of the user;
receiving, from the computing platform, a user interface including a generated output, the output generated based on the extracted, pre-stored user data and the captured one or more physical traits of the user; and
displaying, by a display of the computing device, the received user interface. 29 The computing device of claim 28, wherein the pre-stored user data includes at least location data of the user including a plurality of location entries corresponding to movement of the user performed with the computing device.
30 The computing device of claim 28, wherein the one or more physical traits of the user include one or more of: blood pressure, heart rate, and pulse.
31 The computing device of claim 28, wherein the instructions for capturing one or more physical traits of the user include instructions to capture one or more images of the user.
32 The computing device of claim 31, wherein capturing one or more images of the user includes executing the application to control an image capture device of the computing device.
33 The computing device of claim 28, wherein the instructions for capturing one or more physical traits of the user include instructions to performed a predefined activity for a predefined time period with the computing device
34 The computing device of claim 33, wherein the instructions to perform the predefined activity for the predefined time period further including instructions to capture a heart rate of the user at a start of the predefined time period and at an end of the predefined time period
35 A method, comprising:
by a computing device having at least one processor, a communication interface and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the processor to:
execute an application on the computing device, executing the application including:
initiating a communication session with an external data source via the communication interface;
extracting, from the external data source, pre-stored user data;
transmitting the extracted, pre-stored user data to a computing platform; displaying, by a display of the computing device, a user interface including instructions for capturing one or more physical traits of the user;
capturing, via one or more sensors in the computing device, the one or more physical traits of the user,
transmitting, to the computing platform, the captured one or more physical traits of the user;
receiving, from the computing platform, a user interface including a generated output, the output generated based on the extracted, pre-stored user data and the captured one or more physical traits of the user; and
displaying, by a display of the computing device, the received user interface.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein the pre-stored user data includes at least location data of the user including a plurality of location entries corresponding to movement of the user performed with the computing device.
37. The method of claim 35, wherein the one or more physical traits of the user include one or more of: blood pressure, heart rate, and pulse.
38. The method of claim 35, wherein the instructions for capturing one or more physical traits of the user include instructions to capture one or more images of the user.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein capturing one or more images of the user includes executing the application to control an image capture device of the computing device.
40. The method of claim 35, wherein the instructions for capturing one or more physical traits of the user include instructions to performed a predefined activity for a predefined time period with the computing device.
41 A computing platform, comprising:
a processing unit comprising a processor; and a memory unit storing computer-executable instructions, which when executed by the processing unit, cause the computing platform to:
receive a request to generate an offer;
transmit an application to a mobile device of a user;
execute the application on the mobile device of the user to identify and extract data from a third party system;
receive, from the third party system and via the mobile device of the user, the data;
analyze the data to evaluate the user; and
generate an output based on the analyzed data.
42. The computing platform of claim 41, wherein the data is analyzed using machine learning.
43 The computing platform of claim 41 , wherein the data received from the third party system is location data corresponding to locations of the mobile device at a plurality of days and times.
44 The computing platform of claim 43, wherein the data is captured by a global positioning system of the mobile device and stored by the third party system.
45. The computing platform of claim 44, wherein the data is captured and stored prior to receiving the request to generate the offer.
46. The computing platform of claim 43, wherein the data includes a plurality of location entries corresponding to each location of the mobile device at a particular day and time.
47 The computing platform of claim 46, wherein each location entry includes longitude and latitude coordinates of the location and a time and data stamp.
48. The computing platform of claim 41, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to generate one or more insights related to the user including at least one of: frequently visited locations, time spent driving within predefined distance of a home location, and distances travelled.
49. A computing device, comprising:
a processing unit comprising a processor; and
a memory unit storing computer-executable instructions, which when executed by the processing unit, cause the computing device to:
generate, based on user input from a user, a request for an offer; transmit the generated request to a computing platform;
responsive to transmitting the request, receiving, from the computing platform, an application for execution on the computing device;
executing the application on the computing device to:
initiate a communication session with a third party computing system; extract user data associated with the user and stored on the third party computing system,
receive, from the third party computing system, the extracted user data; transmit the received, extracted user data to the computing platform; and receive, from the computing platform, a generated output based on the extracted user data.
50. The computing device of claim 49, wherein the extracted user data is location data corresponding to locations of the computing device at a plurality of days and times.
51. The computing device of claim 50, wherein the extracted user data is captured by a global positioning system of the computing device and stored by the third party computing system.
52 The computing device of claim 51 , wherein the extracted user data is captured and stored prior to generating the request to generate the offer.
53. The computing device of claim 51, wherein the extracted user data includes a plurality of location entries corresponding to each location of the computing device at a particular day and time.
54. The computing device of claim 53, wherein each location entry includes longitude and latitude coordinates of the location and a time and data stamp
55. One or more non-transitory' computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to:
generate, based on user input from a user, a request for an offer, transmit the generated request to a computing platform;
responsive to transmitting the request, receiving, from the computing platform, an application for execution on the computing device;
executing the application on the computing device, including:
initiate a communication session with a third party computing system; extract user data associated with the user and stored on the third party computing system;
receive, from the third party computing system, the extracted user data; transmit the received, extracted user data to the computing platform; and receive, from the computing platform, a generated output based on the extracted user data.
56. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 55, wherein the extracted user data is location data corresponding to locations of the computing device at a plurality of days and times
57. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 56, wherein the extracted user data is captured by a global positioning system of the computing device and stored by the third party computing system.
58. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 57, wherein the extracted user data is captured and stored prior to generating the request to generate the offer. 59 The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 57, wherein the extracted user data includes a plurality of location entries corresponding to each location of the computing device at a particular day and time.
60 The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 59, wherein each location entry includes longitude and latitude coordinates of the location and a time and data stamp.
61 A computi ng d evi ce, com pri si ng :
a processing unit comprising a processor; and
a memory' unit storing computer-executable instructions, which when executed by the processing unit, cause the computing device to:
execute an application on the computing device, executing the application including:
receive user input including identifying information of a user;
transmit the identifying information of the user to a first computing system for comparison with pre-stored user identifying information associated with the user;
receive an indication that the user is authenticated based on the comparison of the identifying information of the user and the pre-stored user identifying information;
responsive to receiving the indication that the user is authenticated, initiating a communication session with a second computing system storing pre-stored location data including location entries associated with locations of the computing device at a plurality of times and dates;
receiving, based on the identifying information of the user, a plurality of location entries from the pre-stored location data associated with the computing device;
transmitting, to the first computing system, the received plurality of location entries;
receiving, from the first computing system, a first insight generated based on processing of a portion of the received plurality of location entries; and displaying the first insight generated based on the portion of the plurality of location entries.
62. The computing device of claim 61 , further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing device to:
display an option to process all of the received plurality of location entries; responsive to receiving user input selecting the option to process all of the received plurality of location entries, transmitting an instruction to the first computing system to process all of the received plurality of location entries;
recei ve, from the first computing system and based on the processed all of the received plurality of location entries, at least a second insight and an offer; and
display the at least a second insight and the offer.
63. The computing device of clai 61, wherein the pre-stored user identifying information includes an image of a photographic identification of the user.
64. The computing device of claim 61 , wherein the user input including identifying information of the user includes a self-captured image of the user captured via an image capture device of the computing device
65. The computing device of claim 61 , wherein the pre-stored location data is data captured by the computing device and stored by the second computing system.
66. The computing device of claim 61, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing device to:
generate, based on user input from the user, a request for user data; and
transmit the generated request to the second computing system,
wherein the pre-stored location data is pre-stored prior to generating the request for user data. 67 The computing device of claim 61, wherein the plurality of location entries includes longitude and latitude coordinates for each location and a time and date stamp for each location entry.
68. A method, comprising:
by a computing device having at least one processor, a communication interface and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the processor to:
execute an application on the computing device, executing the application including:
receiving, by the at least one processor and via the communication interface, user input including identifying information of a user;
transmitting, by the at least one processor, the identifying information of the user to a first computing system for comparison with pre-stored user identifying information associated with the user,
receiving an indication that the user is authenticated based on the comparison of the identifying information of the user and the pre-stored user identifying information;
responsive to receiving the indication that the user is authenticated, initiating, by the at least one processor, a communication session with a second computing system storing pre-stored location data including location entries associated with locations of the computing device at a plurality of times and dates;
receiving, by the at least one processor and based on the identifying information of the user, a plurality of location entries from the pre-stored location data associated with the computing device;
transmitting, by the at least one processor and to the first computing system, the received plurality of location entries;
receiving, by the at least one processor, from the first computing system and via the communication interface, a first insight generated based on processing of a portion of the received plurality of location entries; and
displaying, by the at least one processor, the generated first insight.
69. The method of claim 68, further including:
displaying, by the at least one processor, an option to process all of the received plurality of location entries;
responsive to receiving user input selecting the option to process all of the received plurality of location entries, transmitting, by the at least one processor, an instruction to the first computing system to process all of the received plurality of location entries,
receiving, by the at least one processor and from the first computing system and based on the processed all of the received plurality of location entries, at least a second insight and an offer; and
displaying, by the at least one processor, the at least a second insight and the offer.
70. The method of claim 68, wherein the pre-stored user identifying information includes an image of a photographic identifi cation of the user.
71. The method of claim 68, wherein the user input including identifying information of the user includes a self-captured image of the user captured via an image capture device of the computing device.
72. The method of claim 68, wherein the pre-stored location data is data captured by the computing device and stored by the second computing system.
73. The method of claim 68, further including:
generating, by the at least one processor and based on user input from the user, a request for user data; and
transmitting, by the at least one processor and via the communication interface, the generated request to the second computing system,
wherein the pre-stored location data is pre-stored prior to generating the request for user data.
74. The method of claim 68, wherein the plurality of location entries includes longitude and latitude coordinates for each location and a time and date stamp for each location entry.
75. A computing platform, comprising:
a processing unit comprising a processor;
a communication interface; and
a memory unit storing computer-executable instructions, that, when executed by the processing unit, cause the computing platform to:
receive, from a plurality of sources, user data, the plurality of sources including at least location data including a plurality of location entries of a mobile device of a user associated with the user data and user data from at least one application executing on the mobile device of the user;
aggregate the user data received from the plurality of sources; analyze, using machine learning, the aggregated data to generate one or more user insights;
generate, based on the generated one or more user insights, an offer or incentive to present to the user; and
transmit, to the mobile device of the user, the generated offer or incentive.
76. The computing platform of claim 75, wherein the plurality of sources further includes health and wellness data from a wearable device of the user.
77. The computing platform of claim 75, wherein the plurality of sources further includes the mobile device of the user and wdierein the user data includes user data uploaded to the computing platform by the user and via the mobile device.
78. The computing platform of claim 75, wherein the offer or incentive includes one or more payments made to the user and wherein the one or more payments are made to a digital wallet of the user.
79. The computing platform of claim 75, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to:
generate a plurality of user interfaces illustrating data sources for each category of data; and display the generated user interfaces.
80. The computing platform of claim 79, wherein the generated plurality of user interfaces further includes summary data for each category of data.
</claims>
</document>
