<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2458,G06F3/048,G06N20/20,G06N3/063,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LEE, JOON HO
JONES, JANNIFER CARA
HEIGEL, JONATHAN ERIC
BAKST, JUSTIN
TALISAI
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, JOON HO
JONES, JANNIFER CARA
HEIGEL, JONATHAN ERIC
BAKST, JUSTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72042588
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ACCOUNTABILITY PLATFORM AND EXTENSIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods of improving AI governance are disclosed. One or more subcontexts associated with a plurality of users are generated from one or more data sources. The one or more sub-contexts represent one or more changes in data that are relevant to assessing one or more risks associated with the plurality of users. One or more sub-contexts are provided as training data to a plurality of models. Each of the models is associated with a confidence score. A probabilistic assessment of the one or more risks associated with the plurality of users is generated based on an application of the plurality of models to additional data pertaining to the plurality of users received in real time. The probabilistic assessment is presented in a dashboard user interface, the dashboard user interface having user interface elements configured to provide insight into how the probabilistic assessment was generated.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A system comprising:
one or more computer processors;
one or more memories;
a set of instructions incorporated into the one or more memories, the set of
instructions configuring the one or more computer processors to perform operations comprising:
generating one or more sub-contexts associated with a plurality of users from one or more data sources, the one or more sub-contexts representing one or more changes in data that are relevant to assessing one or more risks associated with the plurality of users;
providing the one or more sub-contexts as training data to a plurality of models, each of the models being associated with a confidence score;
generating a probabilistic assessment of the one or more risks associated with the plurality of users based on an application of the plurality of models to additional data pertaining to the plurality of users received in real time; and presenting the probabilistic assessment in a dashboard user interface, the dashboard user interface having user interface elements configured to provide insight into how the probabilistic assessment was generated. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the presenting of the probabilistic assessment includes providing a visual representation of a hierarchy of assets used to perform the generating of the probabilistic assessment, the assets including one or more tasks, one or metrics, one or more algorithms, and one or more data sources.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the visual representations include selectable user interface elements corresponding to a number of the one or more tasks, a number of the one or more algorithms, and a number of the one or more data sources. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein each of the selectable user interface elements is configured to cause a presentation in the dashboard user interface of a different view of the assets based on a selected level of the assets within the hierarchy. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the confidence score associated with each model is based on a maturity of the model. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more risks pertain to stealing of corporate assets or being negligible. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the generating of the probabilistic assessment includes combining output from the plurality of models into a combined context. 8. A method comprising:
generating, using one or more computer processors of an AI platform, one or more sub-contexts associated with a plurality of users from one or more data sources, the one or more sub-contexts representing one or more changes in data that are relevant to assessing one or more risks associated with the plurality of users;
providing the one or more sub-contexts as training data to a plurality of models, each of the models being associated with a confidence score; generating a probabilistic assessment of the one or more risks associated with the plurality of users based on an application of the plurality of models to additional data pertaining to the plurality of users received in real time; and presenting the probabilistic assessment in a dashboard user interface, the dashboard user interface having user interface elements configured to provide insight into how the probabilistic assessment was generated. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the presenting of the probabilistic assessment includes providing a visual representation of a hierarchy of assets used to perform the generating of the probabilistic assessment, the assets including one or more tasks, one or metrics, one or more algorithms, and one or more data sources. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the visual representations include selectable user interface elements corresponding to a number of the one or more tasks, a number of the one or more algorithms, and a number of the one or more data sources. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein each of the selectable user interface elements is configured to cause a presentation in the dashboard user interface of a different view of the assets based on a selected level of the assets within the hierarchy. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the confidence score associated with each model is based on a maturity of the model. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein the one or more risks pertain to stealing of corporate assets or being negligible.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the generating of the probabilistic assessment includes combining output from the plurality of models into a combined context. 15. A computer-readable storage medium storing instructions thereon, which, when executed by one or more processors, cause one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
generating one or more sub-contexts associated with a plurality of users from one or more data sources, the one or more sub-contexts representing one or more changes in data that are relevant to assessing one or more risks associated with the plurality of users;
providing the one or more sub-contexts as training data to a plurality of models, each of the models being associated with a confidence score;
generating a probabilistic assessment of the one or more risks associated with the plurality of users based on an application of the plurality of models to additional data pertaining to the plurality of users received in real time; and presenting the probabilistic assessment in a dashboard user interface, the dashboard user interface having user interface elements configured to provide insight into how the probabilistic assessment was generated. 16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the presenting of the probabilistic assessment includes providing a visual representation of a hierarchy of assets used to perform the generating of the probabilistic assessment, the assets including one or more tasks, one or metrics, one or more algorithms, and one or more data sources.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the visual representations include selectable user interface elements corresponding to a number of the one or more tasks, a number of the one or more algorithms, and a number of the one or more data sources. 18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein each of the selectable user interface elements is configured to cause a presentation in the dashboard user interface of a different view of the assets based on a selected level of the assets within the hierarchy. 19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the confidence score associated with each model is based on a maturity of the model. 20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more risks pertain to stealing of corporate assets or being negligible.
</claims>
</document>
