<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M16/00,A61M21/00,B65D1/02,B65D13/02,B65D21/02,B65D6/00,B65D6/02,B65D8/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THALER; STEPHEN L.
</assignee>

<inventors>
DABUS, THE INVENTION WAS AUTONOMOUSLY GENERATED BY AN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68281774
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FOOD CONTAINER AND DEVICES AND METHODS FOR ATTRACTING ENHANCED ATTENTION
</title>

<abstract>
A container (10) for use, for example, for beverages, has a wall (12) with and external surface (14) and an internal wall (16) of substantially uniform thickness. The wall (12) has a fractal profile which provides a series of fractal elements (18-28) on the interior and exterior surfaces (14-16), forming pits (40) and bulges (42) in the profile of the wall and in which a pit (40) as seen from one of the exterior or interior surfaces (12, 14) forms a bulge (42) on the other of the exterior or interior surfaces (12, 14). The profile enables multiple containers to be coupled together by inter-engagement of pits and bulges on corresponding ones of the containers. The profile also improves grip, as well as heat transfer into and out of the container. Devices for attracting enhanced attention include: an input signal of a lacunar pulse train having characteristics of a pulse frequency of approximately four Hertz and a pulse-train fractal dimension of approximately one- half; and at least one controllable light source configured to be pulsatingly operated by the input signal; wherein a neural flame emitted from at least one controllable light source as a result of the lacunar pulse train is adapted to serve as a uniquely-identifiable signal beacon over potentially-competing attention sources by selectively triggering human or artificial anomaly-detection filters, thereby attracting enhanced attention.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A food or beverage (10) container comprising:
a generally cylindrical wall (12) defining an internal chamber of the container, the wall having interior (16) and exterior (14) surfaces and being of uniform thickness;
a top and a base either end of the generally cylindrical wall;
wherein the wall (12) has a fractal profile with corresponding convex and concave fractal elements (18-28) on corresponding ones of the interior and exterior surfaces( 14, 16);
wherein the convex and concave fractal elements form pits (40) and bulges (42) in the profile of the wall (12);
wherein the wall of the container is flexible, permitting flexing of the fractal profile thereof;
the fractal profile of the wall permits coupling by inter-engagement of a plurality of said containers together; and
the flexibility of the wall permits disengagement of said or any coupling of a plurality of said containers.
2. A food or beverage container according to claim 1 , wherein at least some of said pits (40) and bulges (42) each have heads and bases, wherein the heads are of a greater width than bases thereof.
3 A food or beverage container according to any preceding claim, wherein at least some of the pits (40) and bulges (42) have inter-engaging or corresponding shapes and sizes such that a bulge (42) of one container can fit within a pit (40) of an identical container, thereby to couple two containers together.
4. A food or beverage container according to claim 3, wherein the pits (40) and bulges (42) of said two containers fit precisely within one another.
5. A food or beverage container according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the pits (40) and bulges (42) of said two containers fit partially within one another.
6. A food or beverage container according to any preceding claim, wherein two or more said containers can be coupled together by an adhesive disposed between facing pits (40) and bulges (42) of adjacent containers.
7. A food or beverage container according to any preceding claim, wherein the corresponding convex and concave fractal elements (18-28) provide for increased surface area of both the interior and exterior surfaces of the container (10) relative to a volume of the chamber.
8. A food or beverage container according to any preceding claim, wherein the wall is formed of metal, plastics, or elastomeric material.
9. A food or beverage container according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the wall is formed from flexible food product.
10. A device (2) for attracting enhanced attention, the device comprising:
(a) an input signal of a lacunar pulse train having characteristics of a pulse frequency of approximately four Hertz and a pulse-train fractal dimension of approximately one-half generated from a random walk over successive 300 millisecond intervals, each step being of equal magnitude and representative of a pulse train satisfying a fractal dimension equation of ln(number of intercepts of a neuron's net input with a firing threshold)/ln(the total number of 300 ms intervals sampled); and
(b) at least one controllable light source (6) configured to be pulsatingly operated by said input signal;
wherein a neural flame is emitted from said at least one controllable light source as a result of said lacunar pulse train.
11. The device of claim 10, the device (2) further comprising: (c) a processor for supplying said input signal of said lacunar pulse train having said characteristics; and
(d) a digital-to-analog (D/A) converter (12) for transmitting said input signal to said at least one controllable light source (6).
12. The device of claim 11 , wherein said D/A converter (12) is an onboard module of said processor, and wherein said module is embodied in at least one form selected from the group consisting of: hardware, software, and firmware.
13. The device of claim 12, wherein said processor includes a
thresholding unit for monitoring a random-walk trace for trace-axis crossings of a firing threshold of said thresholding unit, and wherein said trace-axis crossings result in activation transitions to generate pulse-activation sequences of said lacunar pulse train.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein candidates of said pulse-activation sequences are filtered based on a zeroset dimension, and wherein said
candidates are filled into a buffer of selected sequences having a fractal dimension of approximately one-half.
15. The device of claim 14, wherein filtered patterns are randomly withdrawn from said selected sequences in said buffer, and wherein said filtered patterns are configured to serve as said input signal to said D/A converter for transmitting to said at least one controllable light source.
16. The device of claim 15, wherein said filtered patterns are generated onboard said processor.
17. A method for attracting enhanced attention, the method comprising the steps of: (a) generating a lacunar pulse train having characteristics of a pulse frequency of approximately four Hertz and a pulse-train fractal dimension of approximately one-half generated from a random walk over successive 300 millisecond intervals, each step being of equal magnitude and representative of a pulse train satisfying a fractal dimension equation of ln(number of intercepts of a neuron's net input with a firing threshold)/ln(the total number of 300 ms intervals sampled);
(b) transmitting said input signal to at least one controllable light source (6); and
(c) pulsatingly operating said at least one controllable light source (6) to produce a neural flame emitted from said at least one controllable light source (6) as a result of said lacunar pulse train.
18. The method of claim 17, the method further comprising the step of:
(d) monitoring a random-walk trace for trace-axis crossings of a firing threshold, and wherein said trace-axis crossings result in activation transitions to generate pulse-activation sequences of said lacunar pulse train.
19. The method of claim 18, the method further comprising the steps of:
(e) filtering candidates of said pulse-activation sequences based on a zeroset dimension; and
(f) filling said candidates into a buffer of selected sequences having a fractal dimension of approximately one-half.
20. The method of claim 19, the method further comprising the steps of:
(g) randomly withdrawing filtered patterns from said selected sequences in said buffer; and
(h) using said filtered patterns as said input signal.
</claims>
</document>
