<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FAIR ISAAC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZOLDI, SCOTT MICHAEL
RAHMAN, SHAFI UR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68051969
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BLOCKCHAIN FOR DATA AND MODEL GOVERNANCE
</title>

<abstract>
A model governance framework uses a shared ledger on the back of a blockchain. The solution tracks various analytic tracking documents (ATDs) and associated assets, like requirements and sprints, through various stages of an ATD lifecycle. Data schema and data distributions are also tracked. The decision models, corresponding variables and execution codes are also tracked. Existing variables and execution codes are made available via a preexisting asset ATD for reuse. Various transactions provide mechanism for accessing and manipulating the various assets through a recorded ledger of events and approvals. A system provides tracking of the approvals and the approvers of all model assets that are touched by any participant, and further provides access control and security for multi-user access. An application layer provides graphical access to the various aspects of the blockchain. Event notification provides the backbone for interfacing with various external systems like email servers and version control systems.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method for developing and deploying analytic and machine learning models for decision-making in a process, the method comprising:
defining, by one or more data processors, an analytic model for making one or more decisions, the analytic model being defined by input data, one or more of a statistical and a machine-learning algorithm, and expert knowledge in the development of the analytic model, the input data, the one or more of the statistical and the machine-learning algorithm, and the expert knowledge defined in at least one analytic tracking document (ATD);
tracking, by the one or more data processors, an approval chain by developers, managers, validators, model governance, and regulators associated with the analytic and machine learning models defined in at least one analytic tracking document (ATD); and
storing, by the one or more data processors, data schema, data statistics, variable/characteristics, execution code, and analytic and machine learning model assets and associated approval chains in a blockchain, the storing comprising storing the at least one ATD in one or more blocks of the blockchain, each of the one or more blocks being cryptographically hashed to a previous block in the blockchain, the blockchain recording and tracking a provenance of the analytic decision model for execution by a decision computing system.
2. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the defining includes requirements, sprints, data, models, variables and execution codes of the analytic model.
3. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein each of the one or more blocks of the blockchain comprises a timestamp and transaction data related to at least a portion of the at least one ATD.
4. The method in accordance with claim 1, further comprising storing, by the one or more data processors, the one or more blocks of the blockchain and associated code assets in a version control code database.
5. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein a block representing the at least one ATD represents a state in a lifecycle of an analytic module comprising one or more of requirements, sprints, models, variables, and execution codes.
6. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein each requirement, data source, variable, execution code, and model associated with the at least one ATD in the blockchain is associated with one or more required approvers.
7. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the model development and deployment blockchain can be queried to document formal approvals and timestamps of the approvers in the block chain associated with the data source, variable, execution code, and model for use in model governance, validation, and regulatory processes.
8. A non-transitory computer program product storing instructions that, when executed by at least one programmable processor, cause at least one programmable processor to perform operations comprising:
defining an analytic model for making one or more decisions, the analytic model being defined by input data, one or more of a statistical and a machine-learning algorithm, and expert knowledge in the development of the analytic model, the input data, the one or more of the statistical and the machine-learning algorithm, and the expert knowledge defined in at least one analytic tracking document (ATD);
tracking an approval chain by developers, managers, validators, model governance, and regulators associated with the analytic and machine learning models defined in at least one analytic tracking document (ATD); and
storing data schema, data statistics, variable/characteristics, execution code, and analytic and machine learning model assets and associated approval chains in a blockchain, the storing comprising storing the at least one ATD in one or more blocks of the blockchain, each of the one or more blocks being cryptographically hashed to a previous block in the blockchain, the blockchain recording and tracking a provenance of the analytic decision model for execution by a decision computing system.
9. The computer program product in accordance with claim 8, wherein the defining includes requirements, sprints, data, models, variables and execution codes of the analytic model.
10. The computer program product in accordance with claim 8, wherein each of the one or more blocks of the blockchain comprises a timestamp and transaction data related to at least a portion of the at least one ATD.
11. The computer program product in accordance with claim 8, further comprising storing, by the one or more data processors, the one or more blocks of the blockchain and associated code assets in a version control code database.
12. The computer program product in accordance with claim 8, wherein a block representing the at least one ATD represents a state in a lifecycle of an analytic module comprising one or more of requirements, sprints, models, variables, and execution codes.
13. The computer program product in accordance with claim 8, wherein each requirement, data source, variable, execution code, and model associated with the at least one ATD in the blockchain is associated with one or more required approvers.
14. The computer program product in accordance with claim 8, wherein the model development and deployment blockchain can be queried to document formal approvals and timestamps of the approvers in the block chain associated with the data source, variable, execution code, and model for use in model governance, validation, and regulatory processes.
15. A system comprising:
at least one programmable processor; and
a machine-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one programmable processor to perform operations comprising:
defining an analytic model for making one or more decisions, the analytic model being defined by input data, one or more of a statistical and a machine-learning algorithm, and expert knowledge in the development of the analytic model, the input data, the one or more of the statistical and the machine-learning algorithm, and the expert knowledge defined in at least one analytic tracking document (ATD); tracking an approval chain by developers, managers, validators, model governance, and regulators associated with the analytic and machine learning models defined in at least one analytic tracking document (ATD); and
storing data schema, data statistics, variable/characteristics, execution code, and analytic and machine learning model assets and associated approval chains in a blockchain, the storing comprising storing the at least one ATD in one or more blocks of the blockchain, each of the one or more blocks being cryptographically hashed to a previous block in the blockchain, the blockchain recording and tracking a provenance of the analytic decision model for execution by a decision computing system.
</claims>
</document>
