<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/14,G06T7/00,G08B13/196,H04N21/4335,H04N21/80,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AVIGILON CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALCANTARA, TULIO DE SOUZA
DONALDSON, ROGER DAVID
FLANAGAN, DAVID
LANG, ZACHARY
PAN, QUAN
RANDLETT, BRENNA
SCHNELL, BRADY JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70458208
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DISPLAYING VIDEO STREAMS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for displaying video streams involves detecting multiple video events, and displaying multiple video streams on a display. Display windows for displayed video streams define an ordered sequence of display windows. When a new event is detected, the display of one or more of the video streams is shifted to respective next one or more display windows in an ordered sequence of display windows.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: detecting a plurality of events within a plurality of video streams, each of the plurality of events having a respective arrival time;
concurrently with respective arrival times, categorizing each of the plurality of events into a respective one of a plurality of groups, and the categorizing being based on at least one of video capture device identity and event type;
determining, for each of the plurality of groups, a frequency in which events are categorized into the respective group; and
selectively displaying at least one video frame of an event in accordance with a likelihood varying inversely in relation to the respective determined frequency for a group of the plurality of groups with respect to which the event is categorized into.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the determined frequency for the group is based on timelocal averaging.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein non-recently arrived events do not impact the determined frequency for the group.
4. A method comprising: detecting multiple events;
displaying a plurality of video streams on a display, wherein the display comprises a plurality of display windows which define an ordered sequence of display windows, and wherein each video stream is associated with one of the detected events and is associated with a corresponding priority level, and wherein the displaying comprises:
displaying, in a first one of the display windows, a first one of the video streams; and
displaying other ones of the video streams in respective ones of the display windows, wherein each other one of the video streams is associated with a priority level that is lower than the priority level of the first one of the video streams;
detecting a first further event; and in response thereto:
shifting the display of one or more of the video streams to the next one or more display windows in the ordered sequence of display windows; and
displaying a new video stream in a first available display window in the ordered sequence of display windows, wherein the new video stream is associated with the detected first further event.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising, in response to detecting the first further event, ceasing display of the video stream in the last display window in the ordered sequence of display windows.
6. The method of claim 4 or 5, further comprising preventing a displayed video stream from shifting to the next display window in the ordered sequence of display windows.
7. The method of any one of claims 4-6, wherein the first available display window comprises a primary display window larger than any of the other display windows.
8. The method of any one of claims 4-6, wherein the first available display window comprises a first secondary display window, smaller than at least one of the other display windows, in the ordered sequence of display windows.
9. The method of any one of claims 4-8, wherein priority levels are ranked from highest to lowest according to the following priority levels: alarm, unusual motion, analytics, and usual motion.
10. The method of any one of claims 4-9, a video stream associated with a more recent event is associated with a higher priority level than a video stream associated with a less recent event.
1 1. The method of one of claims 4-10, further comprising, in response to user input, ceasing display of a video stream.
12. The method of claim 11 , further comprising, in response to ceasing display of the video stream, adding to an event log an indication of the event associated with the video stream.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising re-initiating display of the video stream in response to a user input being received in connection with the indication.
14. The method of any one of claims 4-13, further comprising, in response to user input, shifting the display of a video stream to another display window.
15. The method of any one of claims 4-14, wherein the priority level associated with the first video stream is an alarm, and wherein the shifting of the display of the first video stream is prevented until the alarm is acknowledged via user input.
16. The method of any one of claims 4-15, further comprising, in response to user input, transmitting a selected video stream to a remote device.
17. The method of any one of claims 4-16, wherein a detected event comprises one or more of: an alarm being triggered, unusual motion of an object, an object being identified or classified, and usual motion of an object.
18. The method of any one of claims 4-17, further comprising: determining one or more patterns associated with user-selected ceasing of the display of video streams; and
preventing the display of further video streams based on the one or more patterns.
19. The method of any one of claims 4-18, further comprising: determining one or more patterns associated with user-selected preventing of shifting of the display of video streams; and
escalating the priority levels associated with further video streams based on the one or more patterns.
20. The method of claim 18 or 19, wherein the one or more patterns are determined using a machine learning module.
21. The method of any one of claims 4-20, further comprising: detecting with a camera a second further event, wherein the second further event is associated with a priority level;
determining that a displayed video stream is associated with the same priority level as the detected second further event, and that the displayed video stream was obtained using the camera; and preventing a video stream comprising the second further event from being displayed on the display.
22. The method of claim 21 , wherein the preventing comprises preventing a video stream comprising the second further event from being displayed on the display if a user-defined period of time has not elapsed since the displayed video stream was displayed on the display.
23. The method of any one of claims 4-22, wherein the display windows are positioned along one or more edges of the display.
24. The method of any one of claims 4-6, further comprising: determining that an object in a video stream is the same as another object in another video stream; and
in response thereto, displaying the video stream in a primary display window of the display windows.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the ordered sequence starts at the primary display window, proceeds to one of the other display windows, and further proceeds to a next nearest of the other display windows.
26. A system comprising: one or more cameras; and
one or more processors communicative with memory having stored thereon computer program code configured when executed by the one or more processors to cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising:
detecting multiple events;
displaying, using the one or more cameras, a plurality of video streams on a display, wherein the display comprises a plurality of display windows which define an ordered sequence of display windows, and wherein each video stream is associated with one of the detected events and is associated with a corresponding priority level, and wherein the displaying comprises:
displaying, in a first one of the display windows, a first one of the video streams; and displaying other ones of the video streams in respective ones of the display windows, wherein each other one of the video streams is associated with a priority level that is lower than the priority level of the first one of the video streams;
detecting a first further event; and
in response thereto:
shifting the display of one or more of the video streams to the next one or more display windows in the ordered sequence of display windows; and
displaying, using the one or more cameras, a new video stream in a first available display window in the ordered sequence of display windows, wherein the new video stream is associated with the detected first further event.
27. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer program code configured when executed by one or more processors to cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising: detecting multiple events;
displaying a plurality of video streams on a display, wherein the display comprises at least one primary display window and multiple secondary display windows smaller than the primary display window, wherein the primary and secondary display windows define an ordered sequence of display windows, wherein each video stream is associated with one of the detected events and is associated with a corresponding priority level, and wherein the displaying comprises
displaying in the primary display window a first one of the video streams; and
displaying other ones of the video streams in respective ones of the secondary display windows, wherein each other one of the video streams is associated with a priority level that is lower than the priority level of the first one of the video streams;
detecting with the one or more cameras a first further event; and
in response thereto:
shifting the display of one or more of the video streams to the next one or more secondary display windows in the ordered sequence of display windows; and displaying a new video stream in a first available display window in the ordered sequence of display windows, wherein the new video stream is associated with the detected first further event.
28. A method comprising: displaying a plurality of video streams on a display, wherein the display comprises a plurality of display windows which define an ordered sequence of display windows, and wherein each video stream is associated with an event and is associated with a corresponding priority level, and wherein the displaying comprises:
displaying, in a first one of the display windows, a first one of the video streams; displaying other ones of the video streams in respective ones of the display windows, wherein each other one of the video streams is associated with a priority level that is lower than the priority level of the first one of the video streams;
shifting the display of one or more of the video streams to the next one or more display windows in the ordered sequence of display windows; and
displaying a new video stream in a first available display window in the ordered sequence of display windows, wherein the new video stream is associated with a further event.
</claims>
</document>
