<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ASIPOV, BORIS
GUHA, SAIKAT
HERBERT, STEVEN
HAO, GUOYU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67441591
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA CLASSIFICATION USING DATA FLOW ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein is a system and method for utilizing data flow analysis to perform data classification with respect to a source dataset and a generated derived dataset. A flow confidence for a field is calculated using an adaptive algorithm in accordance with the action performed and the derived dataset. An associated derived confidence for a particular tag is calculated in accordance with an associated confidence and the flow confidence. When the associated derived confidence is greater than or equal to a first threshold, the particular tag is copied to the derived dataset. In some embodiments, when the associated derived confidence is less than or equal to a second threshold, the particular tag is not copied to the derived dataset. Otherwise an action to be taken is identified. A response to the action is received and the adaptive algorithm is modified in accordance with the received response.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system utilizing data flow analysis to perform data classification, comprising: a processing system comprising a processor and a memory having computerexecutable instructions stored thereupon which, when executed by the processor, cause the processing system to:
receive a source dataset storing data in one or more fields, at least one of the fields having one or more tags, each tag having an associated confidence; generate a derived dataset by performing an action on the source dataset; for each of the one or more fields having at least one tag:
calculate a flow confidence for the particular field using an adaptive algorithm in accordance with the action performed and the generated derived dataset;
for each tag associated with the particular field, calculate an associated derived confidence for the particular tag in accordance with the associated confidence and the flow confidence;
for each tag associated with the particular field:
when the associated derived confidence is greater than or equal to a first threshold, copying the particular tag to the derived dataset;
when the associated derived confidence is less than the first threshold and greater than the second threshold:
identify an action to be taken with respect to the particular tag for the derived dataset;
receive a response to the action to be taken with respect to the particular tag for the derived dataset; and modify the adaptive algorithm in accordance with the received response.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the adaptive algorithm is trained using a machine learning process
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the adaptive algorithm is trained using at least one of a linear regression algorithm, a logistic regression algorithm, a decision tree algorithm, a support vector machine (SVM) algorithm, a Naive Bayes algorithm, a K-nearest neighbors (KNN) algorithm, a K-means algorithm, a random forest algorithm, a dimensionality reduction algorithm, an Artificial Neural Network (ANN), or a Gradient Boost & Adaboost algorithm.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the action comprises providing the particular tag to a human reviewer.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the action to be taken comprises an automatic process to review at least a portion of the data in the derived dataset to determine whether or not the particular tag should flow to the derived dataset.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein calculating the flow confidence for the particular field using the adaptive algorithm in accordance with the action performed and the generated derived dataset is further based upon a flow analysis of the derived dataset and the source dataset.
7. The system of claim 1, further comprising when the associated derived confidence is less than the first threshold and greater than the second threshold: modifying at least one of a value of the first threshold or a value of the second threshold in accordance with the received response.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first threshold and the second threshold is a function of a compliance requirement and an associated risk.
9. The system of claim 1, further comprising performing conflict resolution between conflicting tags of the derived dataset using a set of rules.
10. A method of utilizing data flow analysis to perform data classification, comprising: receiving a source dataset storing data in one or more fields, at least one of the fields having one or more tags, each tag having an associated confidence;
generating a derived dataset by performing an action on the source dataset;
for each of the one or more fields having at least one tag:
calculating a flow confidence for the particular field using an adaptive algorithm in accordance with the action performed and the generated derived dataset;
for each tag associated with the particular field, calculating an associated derived confidence for the particular tag in accordance with the associated confidence and the flow confidence;
for each tag associated with the particular field:
when the associated derived confidence is greater than or equal to a first threshold, copying the particular tag to the derived dataset; when the associated derived confidence is less than the first threshold and greater than the second threshold: identifying an action to be taken with respect to the particular tag for the derived dataset;
receiving a response to the action to be taken with respect to the particular tag for the derived dataset; and
modifying at least one of a value of the first threshold or a value of the second threshold in accordance with the received response.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the adaptive algorithm is trained using at least one of a linear regression algorithm, a logistic regression algorithm, a decision tree algorithm, a support vector machine (SVM) algorithm, a Naive Bayes algorithm, a Knearest neighbors (KNN) algorithm, a K-means algorithm, a random forest algorithm, a dimensionality reduction algorithm, an Artificial Neural Network (ANN), or a Gradient Boost & Adaboost algorithm.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the action to be taken comprises an automatic process to review at least a portion of the data in the derived dataset to determine whether or not the particular tag should flow to the derived dataset.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein calculating the flow confidence for the particular field using the adaptive algorithm in accordance with the action performed and the generated derived dataset is further based upon a flow analysis of the derived dataset and the source dataset.
14. The method of claim 10, further comprising when the associated derived confidence is less than the first threshold and greater than the second threshold:
modifying the adaptive algorithm in accordance with the received response.
15. A computer storage media storing computer-readable instructions that when executed cause a computing device to:
receive a source dataset storing data in one or more fields, at least one of the fields having one or more tags, each tag having an associated confidence;
generate a derived dataset by performing an action on the source dataset;
for each of the one or more fields having at least one tag:
calculate a flow confidence for the particular field using an adaptive algorithm in accordance with the action performed and the generated derived dataset;
for each tag associated with the particular field, calculate an associated derived confidence for the particular tag in accordance with the associated confidence and the flow confidence;
for each tag associated with the particular field:
when the associated derived confidence is greater than or equal to a first threshold, copying the particular tag to the derived dataset;
when the associated derived confidence is less than the first threshold and greater than the second threshold:
identify an action to be taken with respect to the particular tag for the derived dataset;
receive a response to the action to be taken with respect to the particular tag for the derived dataset; and
modify the adaptive algorithm in accordance with the received response.
</claims>
</document>
