<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/095,G01C21/34,G05D1/02,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZOOX
</assignee>

<inventors>
PACKER, JEFFERSON BRADFIELD
VAN HEUKELOM, MATTHEW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68916614
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROBABILISTIC RISK ASSESSMENT FOR TRAJECTORY EVALUATION
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are discussed for evaluating trajectories based on risk associated with the trajectories with respect to predicted locations of objects in an environment. A vehicle can capture sensor data of an environment, which may include object(s) separate from the vehicle, such as another vehicle or a pedestrian. A prediction system can output a discretized probability distribution comprising prediction probabilities associated with possible locations of the object in the future. Heat maps, as an example discretized probability distribution, can represent one or more objects. Trajectories can be generated for the vehicle to follow in the environment. An overlap between a region of the vehicle along a trajectory and the heat map can be determined, and a probability associated with the overlap can represent a risk associated with a trajectory navigating through the environment. The vehicle can be controlled based on risks associated with the various trajectories.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A system comprising:
one or more processors; and
one or more computer-readable media storing instructions executable by the one or more processors, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the system to perform operations comprising:
receiving a trajectory for a vehicle to traverse in an environment;
receiving a discretized probability distribution associated with prediction probabilities of possible locations of an object in the environment; determining a region associated with a position of the vehicle along the trajectory;
determining a region probability associated with the region based on the discretized probability distribution;
evaluating the trajectory based at least in part on the region probability; and
controlling the vehicle based at least in part on evaluating the trajectory. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the region probability is indicative of a probability that the vehicle and the object will occupy the region at a same time, the operations further comprising:
determining that the region probability meets or exceeds a probability threshold, wherein evaluating the trajectory based at least in part on the region probability comprises rejecting the trajectory.
3. The system of claims 1 or 2, the operations further comprising:
determining that the region probability is below a first probability threshold, wherein controlling the vehicle based at least in part on evaluating the trajectory comprises controlling the vehicle to follow the trajectory based at least in part on the region probability being below the first probability threshold or based at least in part
41
Lee&Haye on an aggregated trajectory probability based on the region probability being below a second probability threshold.
4. The system of any one of claims 1-3, wherein:
the discretized probability distribution is a first heat map associated with first possible locations of the object in the environment at a first time;
the region is a first region associated with a first position of the vehicle along the trajectory;
the region probability is a first region probability associated with the first region; and
the operations further comprise:
receiving a second heat map associated with second possible locations of the object, the second possible locations associated with a second time after the first time;
determining a second region associated with a second position of the vehicle along the trajectory; and
determining a second region probability associated with the second region based at least in part on the second heat map, wherein evaluating the trajectory further based at least in part on the second region probability.
5. The system of any one of claims 1-4, wherein:
the trajectory is a first trajectory of a plurality of trajectories for the vehicle to traverse in the environment;
the region probability is a first region probability; and
the operations further comprise:
determining a second region probability based at least in part on a second trajectory for the vehicle to traverse in the environment and the discretized probability distribution;
determining a first trajectory probability based at least in part on the first region probability and a second trajectory probability based at least in part on the second region probability; and
controlling the vehicle to follow the first trajectory or the second trajectory based at least in part on the first trajectory probability and the second
42
Lee&Hayes* trajectory probability.
6. The system of any one of claims 1-5, wherein at least one of:
the discretized probability distribution is a heat map comprising discretized portions of the environment, a discretized portion comprising a prediction probability, a location, and a size; or
the discretized probability distribution represents prediction probabilities associated with a first predicted traj ectory of the obj ect in the environment and a second predicted trajectory of the object in the environment.
7. The system of any one of claims 1-6, wherein:
a size of the region associated with the position of the vehicle is based at least in part on at least one of a length of the vehicle, a width of the vehicle, or a predicted velocity of the vehicle.
8. The system of any one of claims 1-7, wherein:
the object is a first object in the environment;
the discretized probability distribution is based at least in part on a first discretized probability distribution and second discretized probability distribution; the first discretized probability distribution represents first prediction probabilities associated with first possible locations of the first object in the environment;
the second discretized probability distribution represents second prediction probabilities associated with second possible locations of a second object in the environment; and
the discretized probability distribution represents aggregated predication probabilities based at least in part on accumulating a first portion of the first prediction probabilities and a second portion of the second prediction probabilities.
9. The system of any one of claims 1-8, wherein:
the discretized probability distribution is a heat map is received from a machine learning model trained to generate the heat map representing the object; or
the discretized probability distribution is a probability map based on Gaussian
43
Lee&Hayes* probabilities based at least in part on a classification of the object, an initial position of the object, and a velocity of the object.
10. The system of any one of claims 1-9, wherein:
the vehicle is an autonomous vehicle;
the trajectory is a first trajectory associated with a first action; and
the operations further comprise:
determining a first cumulative probability associated with the first trajectory;
receiving a second trajectory associated with a second action;
determining a second cumulative probability associated with the second trajectory;
determining that the first cumulative probability less than the second cumulative probability; and
controlling the autonomous vehicle to follow the first traj ectory based at least in part on the first cumulative probability and the second cumulative probability.
11. A method comprising:
receiving a traj ectory for a vehicle to traverse in an environment;
receiving a discretized probability distribution comprising prediction probabilities associated with possible locations of an object in the environment;
determining a region associated with a position of the vehicle along the trajectory;
determining a region probability associated with the region based at least in part on the discretized probability distribution;
evaluating the trajectory based at least in part on the region probability; and controlling the vehicle based at least in part on evaluating the trajectory.
44
Lee&Hayes*
12. The method of claim 11, wherein:
the discretized probability distribution comprises a heat map and represents first prediction probabilities associated with a first predicted trajectory of the object in the environment and second prediction probabilities associated with a second predicted traj ectory of the obj ect in the environment.
13. The method of claims 11 or 12, wherein:
the object is a first object in the environment;
the discretized probability distribution is based at least in part on a first discretized probability distribution and second discretized probability distribution; the first discretized probability distribution represents first prediction probabilities associated with first possible locations of the first object in the environment;
the second discretized probability distribution represents second prediction probabilities associated with second possible locations of a second object in the environment; and
the discretized probability distribution represents aggregated predication probabilities based at least in part on accumulating a first portion of the first prediction probabilities and a second portion of the second prediction probabilities.
14. The method of any one of claims 11-13, wherein:
the vehicle is an autonomous vehicle;
the trajectory is a first trajectory associated with a first action; and
the method further comprises:
determining a first cumulative probability associated with the first trajectory;
receiving a second trajectory associated with a second action;
determining a second cumulative probability associated with the second trajectory;
determining that the first cumulative probability less than the second cumulative probability; and
controlling the autonomous vehicle to follow the first trajectory based at least in part on the first cumulative probability and the second cumulative
45
Lee&Hayes* probability.
15. A computer program product comprising coded instructions that, when run on a computer, implement a method as claimed in any of claims 8 to 14.
46
Lee&Haye
</claims>
</document>
