<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CENTAUR ANALYTICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BANTAS, SOTIRIOS
KALOUDIS, EFSTATHIOS
LERIOS, APOSTOLOS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70462206
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTIVE POST-HARVEST STORED COMMODITY MANAGEMENT METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for managing post-harvest crop quality and pests. A post-harvest monitoring system receives sensor device measurements from sensors deployed within a commodity storage facility. The system analyzes the sensor measurements and, optionally, other data, and provides a user with a representation of the storage facility that includes air flow, temperature, and/or moisture content readouts, along with stored commodity quality and/or stored commodity business metrics predictions concerning infestation level, visible mold, dry matter loss, germination capacity, gas concentration, and estimates of commodity value and profit margin under a variety of post-harvest monitoring system-recommended or user-specified scenarios. Use of the system thus enhances stored commodity quality, marketability and food safety by providing solutions that combat spoilage manifestations and guide end users to efficient pest management.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A post-harvest monitoring system, comprising a processor and a memory communicably coupled to the processor, the memory storing processor-executable instructions, which instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform steps, comprising:
receiving sensor device measurements from a plurality of sensors deployed within a commodity storage facility, various ones of said sensors being co-located with portions of a stored commodity in the storage facility, said sensor device measurements including temperature, relative humidity, air flow, and gas concentration within the commodity storage facility and being received as time-course data streams; and
presenting, as a user interface screen for the post-harvest monitoring system on a display communicably coupled to the processor, a representation of the storage facility to include some or all of air flow, temperature, or moisture content within the storage facility and/or the stored commodity, along with stored commodity quality and/or stored commodity business metrics predictions including some or all of infestation level, visible mold, dry matter loss, germination capacity, gas concentration, and estimates of commodity value and profit margin under a variety of post-harvest monitoring system-recommended or userspecified scenarios regarding potential remediation or other management activities for the stored commodity, wherein the quality metrics are directly measured using one or more of the sensors, calculated based on a current direct measurement of a related physical descriptor, or predicted for a future time point using a computational fluid dynamics simulation, and the business metrics are computed using current or predicted ones of the quality metrics, operational cost information, external predictions of stored commodity pricing, and post harvest monitoring system-recommended or user-specified scenarios regarding potential remediation or other management activities concerning the stored commodity.
2. The post-harvest monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulation includes a three-dimensional CFD model incorporating a finite volume approach for discretizing constituent equations, incorporating an air flow component, an oxygen concentration component, a dry matter loss component, a visible mold component, and a germination loss component.
3. The post-harvest monitoring system of claim 1, wherein display of the stored commodity quality and/or stored commodity business metrics predictions comprises:
determining, by the processor of the post-harvest monitoring system according to the processor-executable instructions stored in the memory, a portion safe storage time for each portion of the portions of the stored commodity in the storage facility, said determining based on the sensor device measurements and a linear model or exponential model for dry matter loss, mold appearance, or germination capacity;
determining by the processor of the post-harvest monitoring system according to the processor-executable instructions stored in the memory, a total safe storage time for the stored commodity based on the respective portion safe storage times for the plurality of portions of the stored commodity; and
providing the total safe storage time as a display element of the user interface screen.
4. The post-harvest monitoring system of claim 3, wherein determining the portion safe storage time is additionally based on intergranular air movements created by temperature gradients.
5. The post-harvest monitoring system of claim 3, wherein the processor-executable instructions stored in the memory further cause the processor to determine an optimal aeration process for the stored commodity based on a model that incorporates effects of an aeration process and couples modeled temperature and moisture to external weather conditions at a geographic site for the storage facility.
6. The post-harvest monitoring system of claim 5, wherein the processor-executable instructions stored in the memory further cause the processor to determine a date and time to initiate the optimal aeration process in the storage facility and displays said date and time as additional user interface elements of the user interface screen.
7. The post-harvest monitoring system of claim 6, wherein the processor-executable instructions stored in the memory further cause the processor to control an aeration fan according to the optimal aeration process.
8. The post-harvest monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the processor-executable instructions stored in the memory further cause the processor to analyze the time-course data received at the post-harvest monitoring system from the sensors according to one or more detection models; display as elements in the user interface screen a notifications panel that includes a notification message when an event related to the stored commodity and/or the storage facility is detected through such analysis; and to automatically add an annotation to the time-course data, said annotation concerning the detected event.
9. The post-harvest monitoring system of claim 8, wherein the one or more detection models comprise statistical models or analytical equations with parameter fitting using optimization algorithms.
10. The post-harvest monitoring system of claim 8, wherein the time-course data includes C02 values.
11. The post-harvest monitoring system of claim 10, wherein the CO2 values are decomposed to extract stored commodity condition and insect presence.
12. The post-harvest monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the processor-executable instructions stored in the memory further cause the processor to determine, based on detected levels of temperature, moisture content, and/or CO2 concentrations within the storage facility, that a coring operation should be performed on the stored commodity; determine an amount of the commodity to be removed based on fill level data provided by a fill level sensor in the storage facility; and sort and display as a user interface element of the user interface screen time-course data of the fill level sensor in real-time.
13. The post-harvest monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the processor-executable instructions stored in the memory further cause the processor to analyze the time-course data according to one or more models that consider storage facility dimensions, commodity condition, aeration fan characteristics, and weather conditions to produce a prediction of a commodity spoilage process; determine, based on the predicted commodity spoilage process, an aeration plan for spoilage process remediation; and automatically activate one or more aeration fans according to the aeration plan.
14. The post-harvest monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the aeration plan is determined in order to meet a greenhouse gas emission target related to expended energy.
15. A method, comprising:
receiving sensor device measurements from a plurality of sensors deployed within a commodity storage facility, various ones of said sensors being co-located with portions of a stored commodity in the storage facility, said sensor device measurements including temperature, relative humidity, air flow, and gas concentration within the commodity storage facility and being received as time-course data streams; and
analyzing the measurements to produce and display a representation of the storage facility to include some or all of air flow, temperature, or moisture content within the storage facility and/or the stored commodity, along with stored commodity quality and/or stored commodity business metrics predictions including some or all of infestation level, visible mold, dry matter loss, germination capacity, gas concentration, and estimates of commodity value and profit margin under a variety of post-harvest monitoring system-recommended or user-specified scenarios regarding potential remediation or other management activities for the stored commodity,
wherein the quality metrics are directly measured using one or more of the sensors, calculated based on a current direct measurement of a related physical descriptor, or predicted for a future time point using a computational fluid dynamics simulation, and the business metrics are computed using current or predicted ones of the quality metrics, operational cost information, external predictions of stored commodity pricing, and post harvest monitoring system-recommended or user-specified scenarios regarding potential remediation or other management activities concerning the stored commodity.
</claims>
</document>
