<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16B15/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HERCE, HENRY D.
MOURTADA, RIDA
WALENSKY, LOREN D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67874548
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VISUAL REPRESENTATIONS OF PEPTIDE SEQUENCES
</title>

<abstract>
A system for visually representing peptide sequences includes a memory configured to store instructions and a processor to execute the instructions to perform operations. The operations include receiving data representing a peptide sequence. The data includes an index representing a position for each amino acid in the peptide sequence. The operations further include categorizing each amino acid in the peptide sequence and assigning each amino acid a value associated with the category. The operations additionally include determining relationship groups, each group including two amino acids in the peptide sequence, based upon a geometrical structure of the peptide sequence. The operations also include filtering the relationship groups to remove groups based upon the category of at least one of the two amino acids that make up the group; and producing a visual representation that includes a representation of each amino acid of the filtered relationship groups.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing device implemented method comprising:
receiving data representing a peptide sequence, the data includes an index for each amino acid included in the peptide sequence, each index represents a position of the corresponding amino acid in the peptide sequence;
for each amino acid in the peptide sequence, determining a category for the amino acid and a value associated with the category for the amino acid;
determining one or more relationship groups of the amino acids in the peptide sequence based upon a geometrical structure of the peptide sequence, each relationship group includes two of the amino acids in the peptide sequence;
filtering the one or more relationship groups of the amino acids in the peptide sequence to remove one or more of the relationship groups based upon the category of at least one of the two amino acids of the respective relationship group; and
producing a visual representation comprising a representation of each amino acid of the filtered relationship groups.
2. The computing device implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
determining a peptide index from the values associated with the amino acids of the filtered relationship groups,
wherein the visual representation presents the peptide index.
3. The computing device implemented method of claim 2, wherein determining the peptide index comprises summing values associated with amino acids for each filtered relationship group.
4. The computing device implemented method of claim 2, wherein determining the peptide index comprises summing values associated with amino acids for all of the filtered relationship groups.
5. The computing device implemented method of claim 1, wherein the category for the amino acid includes one of hydrophobicity and hydrophilicity.
6. The computing device implemented method of claim 1, wherein the value associated with the category for the amino acid includes one of a level of hydrophobicity and a level of hydrophilicity.
7. The computing device implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more relationship groups of the amino acids in the peptide sequence based upon a geometrical structure of the peptide sequence comprises determining two amino acids separated by two amino acids.
8. The computing device implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more relationship groups of the amino acids in the peptide sequence based upon a geometrical structure of the peptide sequence comprises determining two amino acids separated by three amino acids.
9. The computing device implemented method of claim 1, wherein the visual representation comprises a graphical representation of a relationship between a pair of amino acids.
10. The computing device implemented method of claim 9, wherein the visual representation comprises a graphical representation of the hydrophobicity of the pair of amino acids.
11. A system comprising:
a computing device comprising:
a memory configured to store instructions; and
a processor to execute the instructions to perform operations comprising: receiving data representing a peptide sequence, the data includes an index for each amino acid included in the peptide sequence, each index represents a position of the corresponding amino acid in the peptide sequence; for each amino acid in the peptide sequence, determining a category for the amino acid and a value associated with the category for the amino acid; determining one or more relationship groups of the amino acids in the peptide sequence based upon a geometrical structure of the peptide sequence, each relationship group includes two of the amino acids in the peptide sequence;
filtering the one or more relationship groups of the amino acids in the peptide sequence to remove one or more of the relationship groups based upon the category of at least one of the two amino acids of the respective relationship group; and
producing a visual representation comprising a representation of each amino acid of the filtered relationship groups.
12. The system of claim 11, the operations further comprising:
determining a peptide index from the values associated with the amino acids of the filtered relationship groups,
wherein the visual representation presents the peptide index.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein determining the peptide index comprises summing values associated with amino acids for each filtered relationship group.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein determining the peptide index comprises summing values associated with amino acids for all of the filtered relationship groups.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the category for the amino acid includes one of hydrophobicity and hydrophilicity.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the value associated with the category for the amino acid includes one of a level of hydrophobicity and a level of hydrophilicity.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein determining one or more relationship groups of the amino acids in the peptide sequence based upon a geometrical structure of the peptide sequence comprises determining two amino acids separated by two amino acids.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein determining one or more relationship groups of the amino acids in the peptide sequence based upon a geometrical structure of the peptide sequence comprises determining two amino acids separated by three amino acids.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the visual representation comprises a graphical representation of a relationship between a pair of amino acids.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the visual representation comprises a graphical representation of the hydrophobicity of the pair of amino acids.
21. One or more computer readable media storing instructions that are executable by a processing device, and upon such execution cause the processing device to perform operations comprising:
receiving data representing a peptide sequence, the data includes an index for each amino acid included in the peptide sequence, each index represents a position of the corresponding amino acid in the peptide sequence;
for each amino acid in the peptide sequence, determining a category for the amino acid and a value associated with the category for the amino acid;
determining one or more relationship groups of the amino acids in the peptide sequence based upon a geometrical structure of the peptide sequence, each relationship group includes two of the amino acids in the peptide sequence;
filtering the one or more relationship groups of the amino acids in the peptide sequence to remove one or more of the relationship groups based upon the category of at least one of the two amino acids of the respective relationship group; and
producing a visual representation comprising a representation of each amino acid of the filtered relationship groups.
22. The computer readable media of claim 21, the operations further comprising:
determining a peptide index from the values associated with the amino acids of the filtered relationship groups,
wherein the visual representation presents the peptide index.
23. The computer readable media of claim 22, wherein determining the peptide index comprises summing values associated with amino acids for each filtered relationship group.
24. The computer readable media of claim 22, wherein determining the peptide index comprises summing values associated with amino acids for all of the filtered relationship groups.
25. The computer readable media of claim 21, wherein the category for the amino acid includes one of hydrophobicity and hydrophilicity.
26. The computer readable media of claim 21, wherein the value associated with the category for the amino acid includes one of a level of hydrophobicity and a level of hydrophilicity.
27. The computer readable media of claim 21, wherein determining one or more relationship groups of the amino acids in the peptide sequence based upon a geometrical structure of the peptide sequence comprises determining two amino acids separated by two amino acids.
28. The computer readable media of claim 21, wherein determining one or more relationship groups of the amino acids in the peptide sequence based upon a geometrical structure of the peptide sequence comprises determining two amino acids separated by three amino acids.
29. The computer readable media of claim 21, wherein the visual representation comprises a graphical representation of a relationship between a pair of amino acids.
30. The computer readable media of claim 29, wherein the visual representation comprises a graphical representation of the hydrophobicity of the pair of amino acids.
</claims>
</document>
