<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61K36/185,A61K9/00,B65B11/48
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OJAI ENERGETICS PBC
</assignee>

<inventors>
KLEIDON, WILLLIAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73050851
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS FOR OPTIMIZED CANNABINOID DOSAGE DETERMINATION
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides methods and kits for determining a target dosage of a cannabinoid composition. A kit for determining the target dosage may comprise the cannabinoid composition, an applicator device that dispenses said cannabinoid composition in a fixed volume, and instructions for determining the target dosage. The methods described may be unique to, or dependent on, a particular individual and a particular cannabinoid composition. Some methods described may comprise detecting changes in the taste or flavor of a cannabinoid composition to determine the target dosage of the cannabinoid composition.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A kit comprising:
a cannabinoid composition;
an applicator device that dispenses said cannabinoid composition in a fixed volume; and instructions for determining a target dosage according to a method of:
(a) measuring a first value of at least one biomarker for an individual;
(b) using said applicator device to apply said cannabinoid composition in a first fixed volume to a region of a mouth of said individual;
(c) determining a first taste for said cannabinoid composition, wherein said first taste is characterized by one or more members selected from the group consisting of salty, bitter, sweet, sour, and savory;
(d) applying said cannabinoid composition in a second fixed volume to said region of said mouth of said individual;
(e) determining a second taste for said cannabinoid composition, wherein said second taste is characterized by one or more members selected from the group consisting of salty, bitter, sweet, sour, and savory; and
(f) upon detecting a change between characterization of said second taste and said first taste, (1) measuring a second value of said at least one biomarker for said individual, and (2) determining, if said second value meets a condition, that a cumulative volume of said cannabinoid composition applied to said region of said individual is indicative of said target dosage of said cannabinoid composition for said individual.
2. The kit of claim 1, wherein said applicator device is configured to dispense said cannabinoid composition in an additional fixed volume, wherein said fixed volume and said additional fixed volume are different.
3. The kit of any one of claims 1-2, further comprising a sensor device configured to measure a value of said at least one biomarker in a biological sample of an individual.
4. The kit of claim 3, wherein said sensor device is further configured to collect said biological sample from said individual.
5. The kit of any one of claims 3-4, wherein said biological sample comprises a blood sample.
6. The kit of any one of claims claim 1-5, further comprising a sample collector device configured to collect a biological sample from an individual, wherein said biological sample comprises said at least one biomarker of said individual.
7. The kit of claim 6, wherein said biological sample comprises a blood sample.
8. The kit of any one of claims 1-7, wherein said instructions for determining said target dosage comprises instructions for repeating (d) through (e) until said change is detected to determine said cumulative volume.
9. The kit of any one of claims 1-8, wherein said cannabinoid composition comprises cannabidiol.
10. The kit of any one of claims 1-9, wherein said cannabinoid composition comprises tetrahydrocannabinol at less than 0.3% by weight.
11. The kit of any one of claims 1-10, wherein said fixed volume is between about 1 milliliters (mL) to about 5 mL.
12. The kit of any one of claims 1-11, wherein said first fixed volume is between about 1 mL to about 5 mL.
13. The kit of any one of claims 1-12, wherein said first fixed volume and said second fixed volume are substantially the same.
14. The kit of any one of claims 1-12, wherein said second fixed volume is less than said first fixed volume.
15. The kit of any one of claims 1-14, wherein said instructions for determining said target dosage comprises instructions for rinsing said mouth.
16. The kit of claim 15, wherein said instructions for determining said target dosage comprises instructions for rinsing prior to (b).
17. The kit of claim 15, wherein said instructions for determining said target dosage comprises instructions for rinsing prior to (d).
18. The kit of claim 17, wherein said instructions for determining said target dosage comprises instructions for rinsing subsequent to (b).
19. The kit of any one of claims 1-18, wherein said region of said mouth comprises the sublingual region.
20. The kit of any one of claims 1-18, wherein said region of said mouth comprises the ventral region of the tongue.
21. The kit of any one of claims 1-20, wherein said instructions comprise characterizing said first taste by at least bitter.
22. The kit of any one of claims 1-21, wherein said instructions comprise characterizing said second taste by at least sweet.
23. The kit of any one of claims 1-22, wherein said instructions comprise determining a second dosage of said cannabinoid composition at a fixed interval.
24. The kit of claim 23, wherein said fixed interval is daily.
25. The kit of any one of claims 1-24, wherein said at least one biomarker is selected from the group consisting of resting heart rate, blood oxygen level, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, basal body temperature, blood sugar concentration, height, weight, body fat percentage, lean muscle mass percentage, body mass index, blood type, and resting metabolic rate.
26. The kit of any one of claims 1-25, wherein said condition is characterized by said second value that is closer to a target value of said at least one biomarker as compared to said first value.
27. The kit of any one of claims 1-25, wherein said condition is characterized by said second value that is further away from a target value of said at least one biomarker as compared to said first value.
28. The kit of any one of claims 1-25, wherein said condition is characterized by said second value that is within a predetermined range around a target value of said at least one biomarker.
29. The kit of claim 28, wherein said first value is not within said predetermined range.
30. The kit of claim 28, wherein said first value is within said predetermined range.
31. The kit of any one of claims 1-30, said instructions further comprising, subsequent to (f):
(1) applying said cannabinoid composition in an additional fixed volume to said
region of said mouth of said individual;
(2) subsequent to (1), measuring an additional value of said at least one biomarker for said individual; and
(3) repeating (1) and (2) until said additional value meets said condition.
32. The kit of claim 31, wherein said second fixed volume and said additional fixed volume are substantially the same.
33. The kit of claim 31, wherein said second fixed volume and said additional fixed volume are different.
34. The kit of any one of claims 1-33, wherein said instructions comprise performing (a) prior to (b).
35. A kit comprising:
a cannabinoid composition;
an applicator device that dispenses said cannabinoid composition in a fixed volume; and instructions for determining a target dosage according to a method of:
(a) using said applicator device to apply said cannabinoid composition in a first fixed volume to a region of a mouth of said individual;
(b) determining a first taste for said cannabinoid composition, wherein said first taste is characterized by one or more members selected from the group consisting of: salty, bitter, sweet, sour, and savory; (c) applying said cannabinoid composition in a second fixed volume to said region of said mouth of said individual;
(d) determining a second taste for said cannabinoid composition, wherein said second taste is characterized by one or more members selected from the group consisting of: salty, bitter, sweet, sour, and savory; and
(e) upon detecting a change between characterization of said second taste and said first taste, determining that a cumulative volume of said cannabinoid composition applied to said region of said individual is indicative of said target dosage of said cannabinoid composition for said individual.
36. The kit of claim 35, wherein said applicator device is configured to dispense said cannabinoid composition in an additional fixed volume, wherein said fixed volume and said additional fixed volume are different.
37. The kit of any one of claims 35-36, wherein said instructions for determining said target dosage comprises instructions for repeating (c) through (d) until said change is detected to determine said cumulative volume.
38. The kit of any one of claims 35-37, wherein said cannabinoid composition comprises cannabidiol.
39. The kit of any one of claims 35-38, wherein said cannabinoid composition comprises tetrahydrocannabinol at less than 0.3% by weight.
40. The kit of any one of claims 35-39, wherein said first fixed volume is between about 1 milliliter (mL) to about 5 mL.
41. The kit of any one of claims 35-40, wherein said first fixed volume and said second fixed volume are substantially the same.
42. The kit of any one of claims 35-40, wherein said second fixed volume is less than said first fixed volume.
43. The kit of any one of claims 35-42, wherein said instructions for determining said target dosage comprises instructions for rinsing said mouth.
44. The kit of claim 43, wherein said instructions for determining said target dosage comprises instructions for rinsing prior to (a).
45. The kit of claim 43, wherein said instructions for determining said target dosage comprises instructions for rinsing prior to (c).
46. The kit of claim 45, wherein said instructions for determining said target dosage comprises instructions for rinsing subsequent to (a).
47. The kit of any one of claims 35-46, wherein said region of said mouth comprises the sublingual region.
48. The kit of any one of claims 35-46, wherein said region of said mouth comprises the ventral region of the tongue.
49. The kit of any one of claims 35-48, wherein said instructions comprise characterizing said first taste by at least bitter.
50. The kit of any one of claims 35-49, wherein said instructions comprise characterizing said second taste by at least sweet.
51. The kit of any one of claims 35-50, wherein said instructions comprise determining a second dosage of said cannabinoid composition at a fixed interval.
52. The kit of claim 51, wherein said fixed interval is daily.
</claims>
</document>
