<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/52,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RAYSEARCH LABORATORIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
WEISTRAND, OLA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65003126
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA AUGMENTATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method for generating data representing the volume of part of a body, the method comprising generating a point distribution model 'PDM' based on an input dataset comprising data representing at least one surface of part of a body, the PDM defining a surface model dataset based on an average dataset and one or more weight-eigenvector pairs, generating a first surface model dataset based on the PDM by modifying at least one weight of the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs, wherein the first surface model dataset is different from the average dataset, and generating an output volume dataset based on the first surface model dataset and a first reference dataset, the first reference dataset comprising data representing the volume of a corresponding part of a body, the output volume dataset comprising data representing a deformed volume of the corresponding part of the body.
</abstract>

<claims>
1 . A method for generating data representing the volume of part of a body, the method comprising:
generating a point distribution model "PDM" based on an input dataset comprising data representing at least one surface of part of a body, the PDM defining a surface model dataset based on an average dataset and one or more weight-eigenvector pairs;
generating a first surface model dataset based on the PDM by modifying at least one weight of the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs, wherein the first surface model dataset is different from the average dataset; and
generating an output volume dataset based on the first surface model dataset and a first reference dataset, the first reference dataset comprising data representing the volume of a corresponding part of a body, the output volume dataset comprising data representing a deformed volume of the corresponding part of the body.
2. The method of clause 1 , wherein the part of a body comprises at least one organ.
3. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the body is a human body.
4. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the input dataset is derived from at least one real body.
5. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the input dataset comprises a plurality of datasets each representing the same part of a respective body.
6. The method of any preceding claim, wherein:
generating a first surface model dataset comprises modifying at least one weight of the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs such that the first surface model dataset generally corresponds to a second reference dataset, the method further comprising:
modifying at least one weight of the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs to provide a second surface model dataset different from the first surface model dataset; and
determining a mapping between the first and second surface model datasets.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the second reference dataset represents a corresponding part of a body and is derived from a real body.
8. The method of claim 6 or 7, wherein determining the mapping comprises using a deformable image registration algorithm based on the first and second surface model datasets.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the deformable image registration algorithm produces only positive Jacobians.
10. The method of any of claims 6 to 9, wherein generating the output volume dataset comprises applying the mapping to the first reference dataset.
1 1 . The method of any preceding claim, wherein generating the PDM comprises using principal component analysis.
12. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the average dataset is a mean average of the input dataset.
13. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs comprises a plurality of weight-eigenvector pairs.
14. The method of any claim 13, wherein the plurality of weight-eigenvector pairs comprises a linear combination of the eigenvectors.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the PDM is defined by the equation
Xm = xa + aoqo + aiqi + aåq2 + ...+ anen wherein xm is the surface model dataset, xa is the average dataset, ax is a weight for the xth weight-eigenvector pair, ex is an eigenvector for the xth weighteigenvector pair, and n is the number of weight-eigenvector pairs.
16. The method of any preceding claim, wherein modifying at least one weight of the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs comprises modifying the weight within an interval defined based on the standard deviation of the input dataset.
17. The method of any preceding claim, wherein modifying at least one weight of the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs comprises modifying the weight randomly.
18. The method of any of claims 1 to 16, wherein modifying at least one weight of the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs comprises modifying the weight incrementally from an initial weight.
19. The method of any preceding claim, wherein modifying at least one weight of the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs comprises modifying all weights in the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs.
20. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the first reference dataset represents a corresponding part of a body and is derived from a real body.
21 . The method of any preceding claim, further comprising using the output volume dataset as part of a training set for a deep learning process for an artificial intelligence system.
22. A method for generating data representing the volume of part of a body, the method comprising:
generating a point distribution model "PDM" based on an input dataset comprising data representing at least one volume of part of a body, the PDM defining an output volume dataset based on an average dataset and one or more weight-eigenvector pairs; and
generating an output volume dataset based on the PDM by modifying at least one weight of the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs, wherein the output volume dataset is different from the average dataset.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the part of a body comprises at least one organ.
24. The method of claim 22 or 23, wherein the body is a human body.
25. The method of any of claims 22 to 24, wherein the input dataset is derived from at least one real body.
26. The method of any of claims 22 to 25, wherein the input dataset comprises a plurality of datasets each representing the same part of a respective body.
27. The method of any of claims 22 to 26, wherein generating the PDM comprises using principal component analysis.
28. The method of any of claims 22 to 27, wherein the average dataset is a mean average of the input dataset.
29. The method of any of claims 22 to 28, wherein the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs comprises a plurality of weight-eigenvector pairs.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the plurality of weight-eigenvector pairs comprises a linear combination of the eigenvectors.
31 . The method of claim 30, wherein the PDM is defined by the equation
Xm = xa + aoqo + aiqi + aåq2 + ...+ anen wherein xm is the output volume dataset, xa is the average dataset, ax is a weight for the xth weight-eigenvector pair, ex is an eigenvector for the xth weighteigenvector pair, and n is the number of weight-eigenvector pairs.
32. The method of any of claims 22 to 31 , wherein modifying at least one weight of the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs comprises modifying the weight within an interval defined by the standard deviation of the input dataset.
33. The method of any of claims 22 to 32, wherein modifying at least one weight of the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs comprises modifying the weight randomly.
34. The method of any of claims 22 to 32, wherein modifying at least one weight of the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs comprises modifying the weight incrementally from an initial weight.
35. The method of any of claims 22 to 34, wherein modifying at least one weight of the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs comprises modifying all weights in the one or more weight-eigenvector pairs.
36. The method of any of claims 22 to 35, further comprising using the output volume dataset as part of a training set for a deep learning process for an artificial intelligence system.
37. A computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when run on a processor, cause the processor to perform the method of any of claims 1 to 36.
</claims>
</document>
