<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/30,B25J15/00,F15B21/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO
</assignee>

<inventors>
HATTON, BENJAMIN DAVID
LAQUA, Kurtis Allan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72940559
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM FOR CONTROLLABLY ESTABLISHING ADHESION OR FRICTION WITH AN EXTERNAL BODY
</title>

<abstract>
A system for controllably establishing adhesion or friction with an external body. The system comprises a channel member and an interface member. The channel member comprises fluidic channels communicating positive or negative pressure. The interface member is disposed over the channel member. The interface member comprises exposed portions and topographic members. The exposed portions are flexible and exposed to the pressure communicated by the fluidic channels. The exposed portions deform under the pressure communicated by the fluidic channels and reform in the absence of the pressure communicated by the fluidic channels. The exposed portions assume a convex shaped under positive pressure and concave shaped configuration under negative pressure. The topographic members are provided over the exposed portions. The topographic members move based on the deformation of the exposed portions. The strength of adhesion varies based on the deformation of the exposed portions.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A system for controllably establishing adhesion or friction with an external body, the system comprising:
a channel member comprising a plurality of fluidic channels communicating positive or negative pressure; and
an interface member disposed over the channel member, the interface member comprising:
exposed portions that are flexible and exposed to the pressure communicated by the fluidic channels, wherein the exposed portions deform under the pressure communicated by the fluidic channels and reform in the absence of the pressure communicated by the fluidic channels, wherein,
the exposed portions assume a convex shaped configuration when subjected to positive pressure; and
the exposed portions assume a concave shaped configuration when subjected to negative pressure; and
plurality of topographic members provided over the exposed portions, wherein the topographic members move based on the deformation of the exposed portions, wherein the strength of adhesion varies based on the deformation of the exposed portions.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a pressure communication member, wherein, the pressure communication member is provided in between the channel member and the interface member;
the pressure communication member is engaged to the interface member; and the pressure communication member comprises a plurality of holes aligned with the fluidic channels to communicate the positive or negative pressure to the exposed portions of the interface member.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the fluidic channels comprises a plurality of independent fluidic channels, wherein pressure communicated by each of the independent fluidic channels is independently controlled. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein, at a given instance, a first set of the independent fluidic channels communicate positive pressure and a second set of the independent fluidic channels communicate negative pressure.
5. The system of claim 3, further comprising:
a plurality of pressure sensors, each of the sensors sensing pressure in one of the independent fluidic channels; and
a controller regulating pressure applied in each of the independent fluidic channels.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the controller is configured to:
determine change in pressure in at least one of the independent fluidic channels based on input from the respective pressure sensor; and
modify pressure applied to at least one of the remaining independent fluidic channels, if the change in pressure requires compensating of pressure.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the change in pressure is a result of slipping of one or more of the topographic members, which are provided along the independent fluidic channel in which the change in pressure occurs, from a portion of the external body.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein,
the topographic members are generally perpendicular to the top surface of the interface member when the exposed portions are not subjected to the positive or negative pressure; and
the topographic members are disposed at an oblique angle relative generally to the top surface when the exposed portions are subjected to the positive or negative pressure.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the topographic members are walls projecting from a top surface of the interface member.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the topographic members are posts projecting from a top surface of the interface member. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein each of the posts comprises a vertical part and a lateral part extending laterally from the vertical part, wherein the lateral part is configured to interface with the external body. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein each of the posts are tilted by subjecting the exposed portions to negative pressure, to reduce stickiness of the posts against the external body having a smooth surface.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein:
at least a pair of the posts is provided over each of at least the plurality the exposed portions;
each of the movable posts comprises a free end;
the free ends of each of the pair of the posts tilt towards each other when the exposed portion beneath the pair of the posts assumes the concave shaped configuration; and the free ends of each of the pair of the posts tilt away from each other when the exposed portion beneath the pair of the posts assumes the convex shaped configuration.
14. The system of claim 1, further comprising a robotic gripper comprising multiple arms, each of the arms comprising at least one of the interface member, wherein strength of adhesion, against the external body, of at least one of the interface members is used to manipulate strength of adhesion of at least one of the remaining interface members.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the positive or negative pressure is communicated by the channel member after at least some of the topographic members have established contact with the external body.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein relative movement is established between the interface member and the external body by altering pressure communicated by the channel members.
17. The system of claim 1 wherein a coefficient of friction of the interface can be actively changed. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein a strength of adhesion to a counterface can be actively changed.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the strength of adhesion can be optimized through differential pressures being applied.
20. The system of claim 19, further comprising a sensing means to sense pressure change within the channels to provide feedback for adhesion optimization. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein the topographic members are raised topographic members and mechanically engage with a surface of the external object via its surface roughness features.
22. Use of the system of claim 1 in a robotic gripper.
23. Use of the system of claim 1 for gripping to skin or soft tissue, for medical or surgical applications.
</claims>
</document>
