<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
IBM DEUTSCHLAND
IBM (CHINA) INVESTMENT COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
FOMPEYRINE, JEAN
PANTAZI, ANGELIKI
ABEL, STEFAN
WOZNIAK, Stanislaw
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514553
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SPIKING SYNAPTIC ELEMENTS FOR SPIKING NEURAL NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
A method is directed to transmitting signals between neurons of a hardware-implemented, spiking neural network (or SNN). The network includes neuronal connections, each including a synaptic unit connecting a pre-synaptic neuron to a post-synaptic neuron. Spikes received from the pre-synaptic neuron of said each neuronal connection are first modulated, in frequency, based on a synaptic weight stored on said each synaptic unit, to generate post-synaptic spikes, such that a first number of spikes received from the pre-synaptic neuron are translated into a second number of post-synaptic spikes. At least some of the spikes received from the pre-synaptic neuron may, each, be translated into a train of two or more post-synaptic spikes. The post-synaptic spikes generated are subsequently transmitted to the post-synaptic neuron of said each neuronal connection. The method makes it possible to obtain a higher dynamic range in the synapse output.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for transmitting signals between neurons of a hardware-implemented spiking neural network, wherein the latter comprises neuronal connections, each including a synaptic unit connecting a pre-synaptic neuron to a post-synaptic neuron, the method comprising, for each neuronal connection of said neuronal connections and at each synaptic unit thereof: modulating, in frequency, spikes received from the pre-synaptic neuron of said each neuronal connection based on a synaptic weight stored on said each synaptic unit, to generate post-synaptic spikes, whereby a first number of spikes received from the presynaptic neuron are translated into a second number of post-synaptic spikes; and transmitting the post-synaptic spikes generated to the post-synaptic neuron of said each neuronal connection.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: at the post-synaptic neuron of said each neuronal connection, generating output spikes based on the post-synaptic spikes transmitted.
3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the method further comprises: at said each synaptic unit, maintaining a state that determines said synaptic weight, wherein said state can be altered according to a cognitive learning mechanism.
4. The method according to one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the method further comprises: altering, at said each synaptic unit, said state according to said cognitive learning mechanism, based, on the one hand, on spikes received from said pre-synaptic neuron and, on the other hand, output spikes generated at one or more post-synaptic neurons of the spiking neural network. 5. The method according to one of claims 1 to 4, wherein: said synaptic unit is configured to implement a spike-timing-dependent plasticity mechanism based on spikes received from said pre-synaptic neuron and output spikes generated at said post-synaptic neuron, whereby said state is altered based on this spike timing-dependent plasticity mechanism. 6. The method according to claim 2, wherein: said output spikes are generated by integrating post-synaptic spikes as received at said post-synaptic neuron, based on a count thereof.
7. The method according to claim 2 or 7, wherein: the spikes received from the pre-synaptic neuron are modulated, at said each synaptic unit, by first converting the spikes received into one or more electrical signals, according to a synaptic weight determined by said state, and then by setting a frequency of the post-synaptic spikes to be generated, based on said electrical signals.
8. The method according to one of claims 2, 7 or 8, wherein: said state is a primary state; and modulating spikes received from the pre-synaptic neuron comprises: maintaining a secondary state that determines a short-term synaptic weight, based on spikes received from the pre-synaptic neuron; and comparing a current synaptic weight as determined by said primary state to a threshold value, which depends on said short-term synaptic weight as determined from said secondary state, whereby said post-synaptic spikes are generated only if the current synaptic weight is larger than or equal to said threshold value.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein: said threshold value is equal to said short-term synaptic weight, whereby the current synaptic weight is compared to said short-term synaptic weight and said post-synaptic spikes are generated only if the current synaptic weight is larger than or equal to said short term synaptic weight; and modulating spikes received from the pre-synaptic neuron further comprises comparing said short-term synaptic weight to a maximal value allowed for said threshold value and, if said value is accordingly found to be larger than or equal to said maximal value, resetting said short-term synaptic weight.
10. The method according to claim 8 or 9, wherein: said threshold value is equal to a difference between a maximal value and said short term synaptic weight, whereby the current synaptic weight is compared to said difference, said maximal value being a maximal value allowed for the sum of the current synaptic weight and said short-term synaptic weight, such that said post-synaptic spikes are generated only if the current synaptic weight is larger than or equal to said difference; and modulating spikes received from the pre-synaptic neuron further comprises resetting said short-term synaptic weight every time that a post-synaptic spike is generated for transmission to said post-synaptic neuron, after having generated this spike.
11. The method according to one of claims 1 to 10, wherein: the post-synaptic spikes generated have all a same signal amplitude.
12. A synaptic unit circuit for transmitting signals between neurons of a hardwareimplemented spiking neural network, wherein: the circuit is designed to connect a pre-synaptic neuron to a post-synaptic neuron of the network, so as to form a neuronal connection; and the circuit is configured, when connected to said pre-synaptic neuron and said postsynaptic neuron, to: modulate, in frequency, spikes received from the pre-synaptic neuron based on a synaptic weight stored on the circuit, to generate post-synaptic spikes, whereby a first number of spikes received from the pre-synaptic neuron are translated into a second number of post-synaptic spikes, in operation; and transmit the post-synaptic spikes generated to the post-synaptic neuron.
13. The synaptic unit circuit according to claim 12, wherein: the circuit is further configured, when connected to said pre-synaptic neuron and said post-synaptic neuron, to generate post-synaptic spikes that have all a same amplitude.
14. The synaptic unit circuit according to claim 12 or 13, wherein: the circuit is further configured, when connected to said pre-synaptic neuron and said post-synaptic neuron, to maintain a state that determines said synaptic weight and alter said state based, on the one hand, on spikes received from said pre-synaptic neuron and, on the other hand, on spikes emitted by said post-synaptic neuron.
15. The synaptic unit circuit according to one of claims 12 to 14, wherein the circuit comprises: a spike generation unit designed to generate said post-synaptic spikes and transmit the post-synaptic spikes generated to the post-synaptic neuron, in operation; an update unit, connectable to each of said pre-synaptic neuron and post-synaptic neuron, and configured to alter said state, in operation; and a memristive device, wherein the latter is: connected to the spike generation unit and otherwise connectable to said presynaptic neuron, the memristive device configured to retain said state, so as for the spike generation unit to modulate spikes received by the memristive device from the pre-synaptic neuron based on a synaptic weight determined from said state, and generate said postsynaptic spikes, in operation; and, connected to said update unit, whereby any state altered by the update unit determines the synaptic weight used to modulate the spikes, in operation.
16. The synaptic unit circuit according to claim 15, wherein: said update unit is further configured to implement a spike-timing-dependent plasticity mechanism based on spikes received from said pre-synaptic neuron and output spikes generated at said post-synaptic neuron, whereby said state is altered based on this spike-timing-dependent plasticity mechanism, in operation.
17. The synaptic unit circuit according to claim 15 or 16, wherein: the memristive device is further configured to convert spikes received from the presynaptic neuron into one or more electrical signals, according to a synaptic weight determined by the state retained in the memristive device; and the spike generation unit is further configured to set a frequency of the post-synaptic spikes to be generated, based on said electrical signals, so as to modulate spikes received from the pre-synaptic neuron, in operation.
18. The synaptic unit circuit according to one of claims 15 to 17, wherein: said state is a primary state and said memristive device is a first memristive device, configured to retain said primary state; and the synaptic unit circuit further comprises a second memristive device, which is connectable to said pre-synaptic neuron and designed to retain a secondary state that determines a short-term synaptic weight, said secondary state depending on spikes received by the second memristive device from the pre-synaptic neuron, in operation. 19. The synaptic unit circuit according to claim 16, wherein: the synaptic unit circuit further comprises a comparator, the latter connected to each of the first memristive device and the second memristive device, so as to compare a current synaptic weight as determined from said primary state to a threshold value, the latter depending on said short-term synaptic weight as determined from said secondary state, whereby said post-synaptic spikes are generated by the spike generation unit only if the current synaptic weight is larger than or equal to said threshold value, in operation.
20. The synaptic unit circuit according to claim 19, wherein: said comparator is a first comparator, which is designed to use said short-term synaptic weight as said threshold value, whereby said post-synaptic spikes are generated by the spike generation unit only if the current synaptic weight is larger than or equal to said short-term synaptic weight; and the circuit further includes a second comparator that is configured to compare said short-term synaptic weight to a maximal value allowed for said threshold value, the circuit being otherwise configured to reset the short-term synaptic weight if the latter is found to be larger than or equal to said maximal value. 21. The synaptic unit circuit according to claim 19 or 20, wherein: said comparator is designed to use a difference between a maximal value and said short-term synaptic weight as said threshold value, for comparing the current synaptic weight to said threshold value, wherein said maximal value is a maximal value allowed for the sum of the current synaptic weight and said short-term synaptic weight, whereby said post-synaptic spikes are generated by the spike generation unit only if the current synaptic weight is larger than or equal to said difference, in operation; and the circuit is further configured to reset the short-term synaptic weight every time that a post-synaptic spike is generated for transmission to the post-synaptic neuron, after having generated this spike. 22. A hardware apparatus implementing a spiking neural network, wherein: the network comprises a number of neuronal connections, each including: a pre-synaptic neuron; a post-synaptic neuron; and a synaptic unit circuit, which respectively connects said pre-synaptic neuron to said post-synaptic neuron; the synaptic unit circuit configured for transmitting signals between neurons of a hardware-implemented spiking neural network, wherein: the circuit is designed to connect the pre-synaptic neuron to the post-synaptic neuron of the network, so as to form the neuronal connection; and the circuit is configured, when connected to said pre-synaptic neuron and said postsynaptic neuron, to: modulate, in frequency, spikes received from the pre-synaptic neuron based on a synaptic weight stored on the circuit, to generate post-synaptic spikes, whereby a first number of spikes received from the pre-synaptic neuron are translated into a second number of post-synaptic spikes, in operation; and transmit the post-synaptic spikes generated to the post-synaptic neuron.
23. The hardware apparatus according to claim 22, wherein: each post-synaptic neuron of said neuronal connections is: connected by a plurality of synaptic unit circuits of the network; and configured to generate output spikes based on the post-synaptic spikes transmitted by a one or more respective synaptic unit circuits.
24. A hardware apparatus according to claim 23, wherein: said each post-synaptic neuron is further configured to generate said output spikes by integrating the post-synaptic spikes transmitted by the respective synaptic unit circuits based on a count thereof.
</claims>
</document>
