<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04W24/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHADIMI, EUHANNA
WIOREK, JONAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65911215
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND DEVICES FOR TRANSFER LEARNING FOR INDUCTIVE TASKS IN RADIO ACCESS NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
A framework for inductive tasks in RANs includes a source learner, a target learner and an inference entity that can be merged into existing or future RAN functions. The signaling mechanism between different framework entities may also be merged into existing or future network interfaces. The framework can be reused by multiple inductive tasks to perform a variety of tasks such as prediction of some network phenomena or to improve certain KPIs in the network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1 . A network operator device (500) performing as a source learner (1 10) in a radio access network (512), RAN, the network operator device comprising:
a communication interface (510) configured to intermediate communication with a target learner (120) in the RAN; and
a data processing unit (520) connected to the communication interface and configured to prepare and supply source inductive parameters, SIPs, via the
communication interface to the target learner, wherein the SIPs enable the target learner to generate a production model of a RAN inductive task for an inference entity (130) in the RAN.
2. The network operator device of claim 1 , wherein the SIPs include an inductive model of an inductive task different from the RAN inductive task.
3. The network operator device of claim 1 , wherein the SIPs include an inductive model of a task for a cell of a first type, and the RAN inductive task is for a cell of a second cell type.
4. The network operator device of claim 1 , wherein the SIPs include an inductive model generated from data related to multiple cells, and the production model is for a specific cell.
5. The network operator device of claim 1 , wherein the SIPs include an inductive model trained using first data and the production model is trained using second data which is different from the first data.
6. The network operator device of claim 5, wherein at least one of following clauses characterizes the first data and the second data:
the first data is simulated network data, and the second data is real network data, the first data is a high volume of correlated low-cost data, and the second data is a low volume of more precise and expensive data than the high volume of correlated lowcost data,
the first data is offline available network data and the second data is online network data, and
the first data is 4G data, the inductive model being related to a 5G inductive task, and the second data is 5G data.
7. The network operator device of claim 1 , wherein the data processing unit is further configured to train models included in SIPs and/or validate SIPs using data from the RAN.
8. The network operator device of claim 1 , wherein the RAN inductive task is a machine learning application predicting a certain network metric or measurement, classifying a network-related phenomenon or detecting an event or network status.
9. The network operator device of claim 1 , wherein the source learner is part of a data center of the RAN.
10. A method (600) for a network operator device in a radio access network,
RAN, the method comprising:
preparing (610) source inductive parameters, SIPs; and
supplying (620) the SIPs to a target learner in the RAN, wherein the SIPs enable the target learner to generate a production model of a RAN inductive task for an inference entity in the RAN.
1 1 . A computer readable recording medium (540) storing executable codes that, when executed on a network operator device (500) in a radio access network (512), RAN, makes the network operator device to prepare and supply source inductive parameters, SIPs, to a target learner (120, 220) in the RAN, wherein the SIPs enable the target learner to generate a production model of a RAN inductive task for an inference entity (130, 230) in the RAN.
12. A program product causing a network operator device (500) in a radio access network, RAN, to prepare and supply source inductive parameters, SIPs, to a target learner in the RAN, wherein the SIPs enable the target learner to generate a production model of a RAN inductive task for an inference entity in the RAN.
13. A network operator device (700) performing as a source learner (120, 210) in a radio access network, RAN, the network operator device comprising:
a first module (710) configured to prepare source inductive parameters, SIPs; and a second module (720) configured to supply the SIPs to a target learner,
wherein the SIPs enable the target learner to generate a production model of a RAN inductive task for an inference entity (130, 230) in the RAN.
14. A network operator device (500) performing as a target learner (120, 220) in a radio access network (512), RAN, the network operator device comprising:
a communication interface (1 10) configured to intermediate communication with a source learner (1 10, 210) and an inference entity (130, 230) in the RAN; and
a data processing unit (120) connected to the communication interface and configured to receive source inductive parameters, SIPs, via the communication interface from the source learner, to use the SIPs for generating a production model of a RAN inductive task, and to transmit the production model to the inference entity.
15. The network operator device of claim 14, wherein the SIPs include an inductive model related to an inductive task different from the RAN inductive task.
16. The network operator device of claim 14, wherein the SIPs include an inductive model of a task for a cell of a first type, and the RAN inductive task is for a cell of a second cell type.
17. The network operator device of claim 14, wherein the SIPs include an inductive model generated from data related to multiple cells, and the production model is for a specific cell.
18. The network operator device of claim 14, wherein the SIPs include an inductive task the SIPs include an inductive model trained using first data and the production model is trained using second data which is different from the first data
19. The network operator device of claim 18, wherein at least one of following clauses characterizes the first data and the second data:
the first data is simulated network data, and the second data is real network data, the first data is a high volume of correlated low-cost data, and the second data is a low volume of more precise and expensive data than the high volume of correlated lowcost data,
the first data is offline available network data and the second data is online network data, and
the first data is 4G data, the inductive model being related to a 5G inductive task, and the second data is 5G data.
20. The network operator device of claim 14, wherein the data processing unit is further configured to receive training and validation data from the inference entity and/or other entities in the RAN, and to enhance the production model using the training and validation data.
21 . The network operator device of claim 14, wherein the RAN inductive task is a machine learning application predicting a certain network metric or measurement, classifying a network-related phenomenon or detecting an even or network status.
22. The network operator device of claim 14, wherein the target learner is part of a data center.
23. The network operator device of claim 14, wherein the target learner is part of a RAN node.
24. A method (800) for a network operator device in a radio access network,
RAN, the method comprising:
receiving (810) source inductive parameters, SIPs, from a source learner in the
RAN;
generating (820) a production model of a RAN inductive task using the SIPs; and transmitting (830) the production model to an inference entity in the RAN.
25. A computer readable recording medium (540) storing executable codes that, when executed on a network operator device (500) in a radio access network (512), RAN, make the network operator device to generate a production model of a RAN inductive task using source inductive parameters received from a source learner in the RAN, and to transmit the production model to an inference entity in the RAN.
26. A program product causing a network operator device (500) in a radio access network, RAN, 512 to generate a production model of a RAN inductive task using source inductive parameters received from a source learner (1 10, 120) in the RAN, and to transmit the production model to an inference entity (130, 230) in the RAN.
27. A network operator device (900) performing as a target learner (120, 220) in a radio access network, RAN, the network operator device comprising:
a first module (910) configured to receive source inductive parameters, SIPs, from a source learner (1 10, 210);
a second module (920) configured to generate based on the SIPs a production model of a RAN inductive task; and a third module (930) configured to transmit the production model to an inference entity (130, 230).
28. A network operator device (500) performing as an inference entity (130, 230) in a radio access network, RAN, (512) the network operator device comprising:
a communication interface (510) configured to intermediate communication via the RAN; and
a data processing unit (520) connected to the interface and configured
to receive a production model of a RAN inductive task from a target learner; to produce input for the production model from RAN-related parameters; to execute the production model of the RAN inductive task using the input to yield an output related to a RAN function; and
to use the output to determine the RAN function.
29. The network operator device of claim 28, wherein the data processing unit is further configured to supply the output to one or more functional entities in the RAN.
30. The network operator device of claim 28, wherein the data processing unit is further configured to prepare training and validating data, and to send the training and validating data to the target learner.
31 . The network operator device of claim 29, wherein the data processing unit also sends the training and validating data to a source learner that supplies source inductive parameters, SIPs, to the target learner, the SIPs enabling the target learner to generate a production model.
32. A method (1000) for a network operator device (100) performing as an inference entity (130, 230) in a radio access network, RAN, the method comprising:
receiving (1010) a production model of a RAN inductive task from a target learner; producing (1020) input for the production model from RAN-related parameters; executing (1030) the production model of the RAN inductive task using the input, to yield an output related to a RAN function; and using (1040) the output to determine the RAN function.
33. A computer readable recording medium (540) storing executable codes that, when executed on a network operator device (500) in a radio access network (512), RAN, make the network operator device to produce input for a production model of a RAN inductive task based on RAN-related parameters, to execute the production model of the RAN inductive task using the input to yield an output related to a RAN function, and to use the output to determine the RAN function,
wherein the production model is received from a target learner that generates the production model based on source inductive parameters received from a source learner in the RAN.
34. A program product causing a network operator device (500) in a radio access network, RAN, to produce input for a production model of a RAN inductive task based on RAN-related parameters, to execute the production model of the RAN inductive task using the input to yield an output related to a RAN function, and to use the output to determine the RAN function,
wherein the production model is received from a target learner that generates the production model based on source inductive parameters received from a source learner in the RAN.
35. A network operator device (1 100) performing as an inference entity (230) in a radio access network, RAN, the network operator device comprising:
a first module (1 1 10) configured to receive a production model of a RAN inductive task from a target learner;
a second module (820) configured to produce input for the production model from RAN-related parameters;
a third module (830) configured to execute the production model of the RAN inductive task using the input to yield an output related to a RAN function; and
a fourth module (840) configured to use the output to determine the RAN function.
</claims>
</document>
