<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,G06T7/30,G06T7/33
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICRO C
</assignee>

<inventors>
BENNETT, PAUL
RUFF, EVAN
KOLOVICH, GREGORY
VISHWAKARMA, DHRUV
KIM, Jacqueline
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72423989
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD OF FLUOROSCOPIC SURGICAL REGISTRATION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for x-ray and fluoroscopic image capture and, in particular, to a versatile, multimode imaging system incorporating a hand-held x-ray emitter operative to capture digital or thermal images of a target; a stage operative to capture static x-ray and dynamic fluoroscopic images of the target; a system for the tracking and positioning of the x-ray emission; a device to automatically limit the field of the x-ray emission; and methods of use and use of such systems to register a virtual model of an anatomic structure to the corresponding anatomic structure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of preparing a surgical robot for navigating an end effector relative to an anatomic structure positioned on an operating surface using a virtual model of the anatomic structure where the anatomic structure includes a plurality of fiducial markers secured relative to the anatomic structure, the method comprising:
positioning an emitting apparatus to a location relative to the anatomic structure where the emitting apparatus is configured to obtain positioning information comprising a distance and an orientation of the emitting apparatus relative to each of the plurality of fiducial markers; emitting energy from the emitting apparatus onto the anatomic structure, such that the energy is received by an imaging sensor which produces an image signal sufficient to produce a fluoroscopic image of the anatomic structure and where the emitting apparatus produces a positioning information data associated with the fluoroscopic image; and
mapping the fluoroscopic image of the anatomic structure to the virtual model of the anatomic structure using the positioning information data such that the surgical robot is able to use the virtual model of the anatomic structure and the plurality of fiducial markers to navigate a robotic end effector relative to the anatomic structure.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of position tracking elements each respectively producing a unique signal, such that an area defined by the plurality of position tracking elements is identifiable by the respective signal of the position tracking element, wherein positioning the emitting apparatus further comprises relaying the position of the emitting apparatus includes using the emitting apparatus to provide an orientation data of the emitting apparatus and determine a distance from each of the plurality of tracking elements; and
using the orientation data in combination with the distance from each of the plurality of tracking elements to determine the position of the emitting apparatus.
3. The method of claim 1, further obtaining a distance measurement between the emitting apparatus and the anatomic structure, wherein the positioning information data associated with the fluoroscopic image includes the distance measurement.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising measuring a distance between the anatomic structure either the operating surface or the imaging sensor.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the emitting apparatus comprises at least one camera device configured to identify the fiducial markers.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising obtaining a second fluoroscopic image having a different orientation of the anatomic structure from the fluoroscopic image.
7. The method of claim 1, where positioning the emitting apparatus comprises moving the emitting apparatus in free-space while the emitting apparatus is uncoupled from any support structure.
8. The method of claim 1, where positioning the emitting apparatus comprises moving the emitting apparatus in free space while the emitting apparatus is coupled to a boom structure.
9. The method of claim 1, further measuring a distance to each of the plurality of fiducial markers using a second camera system in
communication with the surgical robot.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein emitting energy from the emitting apparatus occurs during measuring the measuring a distance to each of the plurality of fiducial markers using the second camera system.
11. The method of claim 1, where mapping the fluoroscopic image of the anatomic structure to the virtual model of the anatomic structure comprises matching the fluoroscopic image to a slice of the virtual model of the anatomic structure.
12. A method of registering a virtual model of an anatomic structure where the anatomic structure includes a plurality of fiducial markers secured relative to the anatomic structure, the method comprising:
positioning an emitting apparatus to a location relative to the anatomic structure where the emitting apparatus is configured to obtain positioning information comprising a distance and an orientation of the emitting apparatus relative to each of the plurality of fiducial markers; emitting energy from the emitting apparatus onto the anatomic structure, such that the energy is received by an imaging sensor which produces an image signal sufficient to produce a fluoroscopic image of the anatomic structure and where the emitting apparatus produces a positioning information data associated with the fluoroscopic image; and
mapping the fluoroscopic image of the anatomic structure to the virtual model of the anatomic structure using the positioning information data such that the virtual model of the anatomic structure and the plurality of fiducial markers can be used to navigate a device relative to the anatomic structure.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising a plurality of position tracking elements each respectively producing a unique signal, such that an area defined by the plurality of position tracking elements is identifiable by the respective signal of the position tracking element, wherein positioning the emitting apparatus further comprises relaying the position of the emitting apparatus includes using the emitting apparatus to provide an orientation data of the emitting apparatus and determine a distance from each of the plurality of tracking elements; and
using the orientation data in combination with the distance from each of the plurality of tracking elements to determine the position of the emitting apparatus.
14. The method of claim 12, further obtaining a distance measurement between the emitting apparatus and the anatomic structure, wherein the positioning information data associated with the fluoroscopic image includes the distance measurement.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising measuring a distance between the anatomic structure either the operating surface or the imaging sensor.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the emitting apparatus comprises at least one camera device configured to identify the fiducial markers.
17. The method of claim 12, further comprising obtaining a second fluoroscopic image having a different orientation of the anatomic structure from the fluoroscopic image.
18. The method of claim 12, where positioning the emitting apparatus comprises moving the emitting apparatus in free-space while the emitting apparatus is uncoupled from any support structure.
19. The method of claim 12, where positioning the emitting apparatus comprises moving the emitting apparatus in free space while the emitting apparatus is coupled to a boom structure.
20. The method of claim 12, further measuring a distance to each of the plurality of fiducial markers using a second camera system in
communication with the device.
21 The method of claim 20, wherein emitting energy from the emitting apparatus occurs during measuring the measuring a distance to each of the plurality of fiducial markers using the second camera system.
22. The method of claim 12, where mapping the fluoroscopic image of the anatomic structure to the virtual model of the anatomic structure comprises matching the fluoroscopic image to a slice of the virtual model of the anatomic structure.
</claims>
</document>
