<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12N15/11,C12N15/117,C12Q1/68,G01N33/574
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAYO FOUNDATION FOR MEDICAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
EXACT SCIENCES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
AHLQUIST, DAVID A.
TAYLOR, WILLIAM R.
ALLAWI, HATIM T.
MAHONEY, DOUGLAS W.
KISIEL, JOHN B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72667410
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTING PANCREATIC DUCTAL ADENOCARCINOMA IN PLASMA
</title>

<abstract>
Provided herein is technology for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) screening and particularly, but not exclusively, to methods, compositions, and related uses for detecting the presence of PDAC.
</abstract>

<claims>
WE CLAIM:
1. A method, comprising:
measuring a methylation level for one or more genes in a biological sample of a human individual through
treating genomic DNA in the biological sample with a reagent that modifies DNA in a methylation-specific manner;
amplifying the treated genomic DNA using a set of primers for the selected one or more genes; and
determining the methylation level of the one or more genes by polymerase chain reaction, nucleic acid sequencing, mass spectrometry, methylation-specific nuclease, mass-based separation, and target capture;
wherein the one or more genes is selected from AK055957, CD1D, CLEC11A, FER1L4, GRIN2D, HOXA1, LRRC4, MAX. chr5.4295, NTRK3, PRKCB, RYR2, SHISA9, and ZNF781.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the DNA is treated with a reagent that modifies DNA in a methylation-specific manner.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the reagent comprises one or more of a methylati onsensitive restriction enzyme, a methylation-dependent restriction enzyme, and a bisulfite reagent.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the DNA is treated with a bisulfite reagent to produce bisulfite-treated DNA.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the measuring comprises multiplex amplification.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring the amount of at least one methylated marker gene comprises using one or more methods selected from the group consisting of methylation-specific PCR, quantitative methylation-specific PCR, methylation-specific DNA restriction enzyme analysis, quantitative bisulfite pyrosequencing, flap endonuclease assay, PCR-flap assay, and bisulfite genomic sequencing PCR.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample comprises one or more of a plasma sample, a blood sample, or a tissue sample (e.g., pancreatic tissue).
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of primers for the selected one or more genes is recited in Table 2.
9. A method of characterizing a sample, comprising:
a) measuring an amount of at least one methylated marker gene in DNA from the sample, wherein the at least one methylated marker gene is one or more genes selected from AK055957, CD1D, CLEC11A, FER1L4, GRIN2D, HOXA1, LRRC4, MAX. chr5.4295, NTRK3, PRKCB, RYR2, SHISA9, and ZNF781;
b) measuring the amount of at least one reference marker in the DNA; and c) calculating a value for the amount of the at least one methylated marker gene measured in the DNA as a percentage of the amount of the reference marker gene measured in the DNA, wherein the value indicates the amount of the at least one methylated marker DNA measured in the sample.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the at least one reference marker comprises one or more reference marker selected from B3GALT6 DNA and b-actin DNA.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the sample comprises one or more of a plasma sample, a blood sample, or a tissue sample (e.g., pancreatic tissue).
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the DNA is extracted from the sample.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the DNA is treated with a reagent that modifies DNA in a methylation-specific manner.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the reagent comprises one or more of a methylationsensitive restriction enzyme, a methylation-dependent restriction enzyme, and a bisulfite reagent.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the DNA is treated with a bisulfite reagent to produce bisulfite-treated DNA.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the modified DNA is amplified using a set of primers for the selected one or more genes.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the set of primers for the selected one or more genes is recited in Table 2.
18. The method of claim 9 wherein measuring amounts of a methylated marker gene comprises using one or more of polymerase chain reaction, nucleic acid sequencing, mass spectrometry, methylation-specific nuclease, mass-based separation, and target capture.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the measuring comprises multiplex amplification.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein measuring the amount of at least one methylated marker gene comprises using one or more methods selected from the group consisting of methylation-specific PCR, quantitative methylation-specific PCR, methylation-specific DNA restriction enzyme analysis, quantitative bisulfite pyrosequencing, flap endonuclease assay, PCR-flap assay, and bisulfite genomic sequencing PCR.
21. A method for characterizing a biological sample comprising:
(a) measuring a methylation level of a CpG site for one or more genes selected from AK055957, CD1D, CLEC11A, FER1L4, GRIN2D, HOXA1, LRRC4, MAX. chr5.4295, NTRK3, PRKCB, RYR2, SHISA9, and ZNF781 in a biological sample of a human individual through
treating genomic DNA in the biological sample with bisulfite; amplifying the bisulfite-treated genomic DNA using a set of primers for the selected one or more genes; and determining the methylation level of the CpG site by methylation-specific PCR, quantitative methylation-specific PCR, methylation-sensitive DNA restriction enzyme analysis, quantitative bisulfite pyrosequencing, or bisulfite genomic sequencing PCR;
(b) comparing the methylation level to a methylation level of a corresponding set of genes in control samples without PD AC; and
(c) determining that the individual has PD AC when the methylation level measured in the one or more genes is higher than the methylation level measured in the respective control samples.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein the set of primers for the selected one or more genes is recited in Table 2.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein the biological sample is a plasma sample, a blood sample, or a tissue sample (e.g., pancreatic tissue).
24. The method of claim 21, wherein the one or more genes is described by the genomic coordinates shown in Table 1.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein said CpG site is present in a coding region or a regulatory region.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein said measuring the methylation level a CpG site for one or more genes comprises a determination selected from the group consisting of determining the methylation score of said CpG site and determining the methylation frequency of said CpG site.
27. A method, comprising:
(a) measuring a methylation level of a CpG site for one or more genes selected from AK055957, CD1D, CLEC11A, FER1L4, GRIN2D, HOXA1, LRRC4, MAX. chr5.4295, NTRK3, PRKCB, RYR2, SHISA9, and ZNF781 in a biological sample of a human individual through
treating genomic DNA in the biological sample with bisulfite; amplifying the bisulfite-treated genomic DNA using a set of primers for the selected one or more genes; and
determining the methylation level of the CpG site by methylation-specific PCR, quantitative methylation-specific PCR, methylation-sensitive DNA restriction enzyme analysis, quantitative bisulfite pyrosequencing, or bisulfite genomic sequencing PCR.
28. The method of claim 27 wherein the set of primers for the selected one or more genes is recited in Table 2.
29. The method of claim 27, wherein the biological sample is a plasma sample, a blood sample, or a tissue sample (e.g., pancreatic tissue).
30. The method of claim 27, wherein the one or more genes is described by the genomic coordinates shown in Table 1.
31. The method of claim 27, wherein said measuring the methylation level a CpG site for one or more genes comprises a determination selected from the group consisting of determining the methylation score of said CpG site and determining the methylation frequency of said CpG site.
32. A method of screening for PD AC in a sample obtained from a subject, the method comprising:
1) assaying a methylation state of a DNA methylation marker comprising a chromosomal region having an annotation selected from the group consisting of AK055957, CD1D, CLEC11A, FER1L4, GRIN2D, HOXA1, LRRC4, MAX. chr5.4295, NTRK3, PRKCB, RYR2, SHISA9, and ZNF781, and
2) identifying the subject as having PD AC when the methylation state of the marker is different than a methylation state of the marker assayed in a subject that does not have PD AC.
33. The method of claim 32 comprising assaying a plurality of markers.
34. The method of claim 32 wherein the marker is in a high CpG density promoter.
35. The method of claim 32 wherein the sample is a stool sample, a tissue sample, a pancreatic tissue sample, a plasma sample, or a urine sample.
36. The method of claim 32 wherein the assaying comprises using methylation specific polymerase chain reaction, nucleic acid sequencing, mass spectrometry, methylation specific nuclease, mass-based separation, or target capture.
37. The method of claim 32 wherein the assaying comprises use of a methylation specific oligonucleotide.
38. A method for characterizing a sample from a human patient comprising:
a) obtaining DNA from a sample of a human patient;
b) assaying a methylation state of a DNA methylation marker comprising a chromosomal region having an annotation selected from the group consisting of AK055957, CD1D, CLEC11A, FER1L4, GRIN2D, HOXA1, LRRC4,
MAX. chr5.4295, NTRK3, PRKCB, RYR2, SHISA9, and ZNF781;
c) comparing the assayed methylation state of the one or more DNA methylation markers with methylation level references for the one or more DNA methylation markers for human patients not having PD AC.
39. The method of claim 38 wherein the sample is a stool sample, a tissue sample, a pancreatic tissue sample, a plasma sample, or a urine sample.
40. The method of claim 38 comprising assaying a plurality of DNA methylation markers.
41. The method of claim 38 wherein the assaying comprises using methylation specific polymerase chain reaction, nucleic acid sequencing, mass spectrometry, methylation specific nuclease, mass-based separation, or target capture.
42. The method of claim 38 wherein the assaying comprises use of a methylation specific oligonucleotide.
43. The method of claim 38 wherein the methylation specific oligonucleotide is selected from a set of primers for the selected one or more genes is recited in Table 2 or a probe selected from Table 2.
44. A method for characterizing a sample obtained from a human subject, the method comprising reacting a nucleic acid comprising a DMR with a bisulfite reagent to produce a bisulfite-reacted nucleic acid; sequencing the bisulfite-reacted nucleic acid to provide a nucleotide sequence of the bisulfite-reacted nucleic acid; comparing the nucleotide sequence of the bisulfite-reacted nucleic acid with a nucleotide sequence of a nucleic acid comprising the DMR from a subject who does not have PD AC to identify differences in the two sequences.
45. A system for characterizing a sample obtained from a human subject, the system comprising an analysis component configured to determine the methylation state of a sample, a software component configured to compare the methylation state of the sample with a control sample or a reference sample methylation state recorded in a database, and an alert component configured to determine a single value based on a combination of methylation states and alert a user of a PD AC-associated methylation state.
46. The system of claim 45 wherein the sample comprises a nucleic acid comprising a DMR.
47. The system of claim 45 further comprising a component for isolating a nucleic acid.
48. The system of claim 45 further comprising a component for collecting a sample.
49. The system of claim 45 wherein the sample is a stool sample, a tissue sample, a pancreatic tissue sample, a plasma sample, or a urine sample.
50. The system of claim 45 wherein the database comprises nucleic acid sequences comprising a DMR.
51. The system of claim 45 wherein the database comprises nucleic acid sequences from subjects who do not have PD AC.
52. A kit comprising:
1) a bisulfite reagent; and
2) a control nucleic acid comprising a sequence from a DMR selected from a group consisting of DMR 1-13 from Table 1, and having a methylation state associated with a subject who does not have PD AC.
53. A kit comprising a bisulfite reagent and an oligonucleotide according to SEQ ID NOS 1-39.
54. A kit comprising a sample collector for obtaining a sample from a subject; reagents for isolating a nucleic acid from the sample; a bisulfite reagent; and an
oligonucleotide according to SEQ ID NOS 1-39.
55. The kit according to claim 53 wherein the sample is a stool sample, a tissue sample, a pancreatic tissue sample, a plasma sample, or a urine sample.
56. A composition comprising a nucleic acid comprising a DMR and a bisulfite reagent.
57. A composition comprising a nucleic acid comprising a DMR and an oligonucleotide according to SEQ ID NOS 1-39.
58. A composition comprising a nucleic acid comprising a DMR and a methylationsensitive restriction enzyme.
59. A composition comprising a nucleic acid comprising a DMR and a polymerase.
60. A method for screening for PD AC in a sample obtained from a subject, the method comprising reacting a nucleic acid comprising a DMR with a bisulfite reagent to produce a bisulfite-reacted nucleic acid; sequencing the bisulfite-reacted nucleic acid to provide a nucleotide sequence of the bi sulfite-reacted nucleic acid; comparing the nucleotide sequence of the bisulfite-reacted nucleic acid with a nucleotide sequence of a nucleic acid comprising the DMR from a subject who does not have PD AC to identify differences in the two sequences; and identifying the subject as having PD AC when a difference is present.
61. A system for screening for PD AC in a sample obtained from a subject, the system comprising an analysis component configured to determine the methylation state of a sample, a software component configured to compare the methylation state of the sample with a control sample or a reference sample methylation state recorded in a database, and an alert component configured to determine a single value based on a combination of methylation states and alert a user of a PD AC-associated methylation state.
62. The system of claim 61 wherein the sample comprises a nucleic acid comprising a DNA methylation marker comprising a base in a differentially methylated region (DMR) selected from a group consisting of DMR 1-13 from Table 1.
63. The system of claim 61 further comprising a component for isolating a nucleic acid.
64. The system of claim 61 further comprising a component for collecting a sample.
65. The system of claim 61 further comprising a component for collecting a stool sample, a pancreatic tissue sample, and/or a plasma sample.
66. The system of claim 61 wherein the database comprises nucleic acid sequences from subjects who do not have PD AC.
67. The method of claim 1, further comprising measuring the level of carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) from the biological sample.
68. The method of claim 21, further comprising
measuring the level of carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) from the biological sample;
comparing the measured level of CA19-9 with a reference level for CA19-9 from a control biological sample; and
determining that the individual has PD AC when the methylation level measured in the one or more genes is higher than the methylation level measured in the respective control samples and the level of CA19-9 is higher than the reference level for CA19-9 from the control biological sample.
69. The method of claim 27, further comprising
measuring the level of carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) from the biological sample.
</claims>
</document>
