<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q30/04,G06Q50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GRABTAXI HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAO, YANG
KUMAR, PRASHANT
XU, Xin
WILSON, Padarn George
XIE, Chao
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73290314
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMMUNICATIONS SERVER APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR DERIVING A QUANTUM MODIFIER FOR A TRANSPORT-RELATED SERVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A communications server apparatus for deriving a quantum modifier for a quantum related to a transportation service, the communications server apparatus comprising a processor and a memory, and being configured, under control of the processor to execute instructions in the memory: to receive user service request data comprising data indicative of a user pick-up location and data indicative of a user drop-off location, to record a user pick-up time and to generate one or more data records comprising: an index idle time data field comprising data indicative of an index idle time at plural notional drop-off locations; and a user drop-off time data field comprising data indicative of a user drop-off time; to retrieve, from a database, data indicative of a service provider's estimated idle time for the user drop-off location at the user drop-off time; to compare the data indicative of the index idle time and the data indicative of the service provider's estimated idle time and generate a comparison result data field comprising data indicative of a comparison result; and to generate, in the one or more data records, a data field comprising quantum modifier data indicative of the quantum modifier based on the data indicative of the comparison result.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A communications server apparatus for deriving a quantum modifier for a quantum related to a transportation service, the communications server apparatus comprising a processor and a memory, and being configured, under control of the processor to execute instructions in the memory:
to receive user service request data comprising data indicative of a user pick-up location and data indicative of a user drop-off location, to record a user pick-up time and to generate one or more data records comprising:
an index idle time data field comprising data indicative of an index idle time for plural notional drop-off locations; and
a user drop-off time data field comprising data indicative of a user drop off time;
to retrieve, from a database, data indicative of a service provider's estimated idle time for the user drop-off location at the user drop-off time;
to compare the data indicative of the index idle time and the data indicative of the service provider's estimated idle time and generate a comparison result data field comprising data indicative of a comparison result; and
to generate, in the one or more data records, a data field comprising quantum modifier data indicative of the quantum modifier based on the data indicative of the comparison result.
2. The communications server apparatus of claim 1, configured to generate, in the one or more data records, one or more notional travel time data fields comprising data indicative of plural notional travel times to the plural notional drop-off locations using the user pick-up time and the user pick-up location.
3. The communications server apparatus of claim 2, configured to generate, in the one or more data records, one or more notional drop-off time data fields comprising data indicative of plural notional drop-off times at the plural notional drop-off locations from the data indicative of the plural notional travel times.
4. The communications server apparatus of claim 3, further configured to retrieve data for historical idle time at each of the plural notional drop-off locations at the plural notional drop-off times and process the historical idle time at each of the plural notional drop-off locations at the plural notional drop-off times into data indicative of the service provider's index idle time at the plural notional drop-off locations.
5. The communications server apparatus of any preceding claim, configured to retrieve idle time at the user drop-off location at the user drop-off time as the service provider's estimated idle time.
6. The communications server apparatus of any preceding claim, configured for the quantum modifier data to indicate a quantum increase if the service provider's estimated idle time is greater than the index idle time.
7. The communications server apparatus of any preceding claim, configured for the quantum modifier data to indicate a quantum decrease if the service provider's estimated idle time is less than the index idle time.
8. The communications server apparatus of any preceding claim, configured for the quantum modifier data to indicate no change in the quantum if the service provider's estimated idle time is the same as the index idle time.
9. The communications server apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein the communications server apparatus is configured to derive a modified quantum data field comprising data indicative of a modified quantum based on the quantum modifier data and data indicative of an original quantum related to the service request.
10. A method, performed in a communications server apparatus for deriving a quantum modifier for a quantum related to a transportation service, the method comprising, under control of a processor of the communications server apparatus:
BO receiving user service request data comprising data indicative of a user pick-up location and data indicative of a user drop-off location, recording a user pick-up time and generating one or more data records comprising:
an index idle time data field comprising data indicative of a service provider's index idle time at plural notional drop-off locations; and
a user drop-off time data field comprising data indicative of a user drop off time;
retrieving, from a database, data indicative of a service provider's estimated idle time for the user drop-off location at the user drop-off time;
comparing the data indicative of the service provider's index idle time and the data indicative of the service provider's estimated idle time and generating a comparison result data field comprising data indicative of a comparison result; and
generating, in the one or more data records, a data field comprising quantum modifier data indicative of the quantum modifier based on the data indicative of the comparison result.
11. A computer program product comprising instructions for implementing the method of any claim 10.
12. A computer program comprising instructions for implementing the method of claim 10.
13. A non-transitory storage medium storing instructions, which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the method of claim 10.
14. A communications system for deriving a quantum modifier for a quantum related to a transportation service comprising a communications server apparatus, at least one user communications device and communications network equipment operable for the communications server apparatus and the at least one user communications device to establish communication with each other therethrough, wherein the at least one user communications device comprises a first processor a nd a first memory, the at least one user communications device being configured, under control of the first processor, to execute first instructions stored in the first memory:
to transmit, to the communications server apparatus, user service request data comprising data indicative of a user pick-up location and data indicative of a user drop-off location and wherein:
the communications server apparatus comprises a second processor and a second memory, the communications server apparatus being configured, under control of the second processor, to execute second instructions stored in the second memory:
to receive the user service request data, to record a user pick-up time and to generate one or more data records comprising:
an index idle time data field comprising data indicative of a service provider's index idle time at plural notional drop-off locations; and
a user drop-off time data field comprising data indicative of a user drop off time;
to retrieve, from a database, data indicative of a service provider's estimated idle time for the user drop-off location at the user drop-off time;
to compare the data indicative of the service provider's index idle time and the data indicative of the service provider's estimated idle time and generate a comparison result data field comprising data indicative of a comparison result; and
to generate, in the one or more data records, a data field comprising quantum modifier data indicative of the quantum modifier based on the data indicative of the comparison result.
</claims>
</document>
