<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01M7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAYER
MONSANTO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAPPLE, ANDREW
DEYOUNG, CREIGHTON
KOHNE, JEFFREY
LUZECKY, CHRISTOPHER
SHERIDAN, ALEXANDER
VAUGHN, ANTHONY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68732004
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A SPRAY VEHICLE
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to a spray vehicle (10), comprising at least one boom (20), a plurality of spray units (30), at least one first actuator (40), at least one second actuator (50), a plurality of sensors (60), and a processing unit (70). The at least one boom is movably attached to the vehicle. The plurality of spray units are attached to the at least one boom. The plurality of spray units are configured to spray pollen or a liquid chemical. The at least one first actuator is configured to move the at least one boom. The at least one second actuator is configured to control the plurality of spray units. At least one sensor (61) of the plurality of sensors is configured to measure a speed of the vehicle relative to the ground. At least one sensor (62) of the plurality of sensors is configured to measure an air movement direction relative to the vehicle. At least one sensor (63) of the plurality of sensors is configured to measure an air movement speed relative to the vehicle. The processing unit is configured to determine an air movement direction relative to the ground and determine an air movement speed relative to the ground, the determination comprising utilisation of the speed of the vehicle, the air movement direction relative to the vehicle and the air movement speed relative to the vehicle. The processing unit is configured to control the at least one first actuator and/or the at least one second actuator; the control comprising utilisation of the determined air movement direction relative to the ground and the determined air movement speed relative to the ground.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A spray vehicle (10), comprising:
at least one boom (20);
a plurality of spray units (30);
at least one first actuator (40);
at least one second actuator (50);
a plurality of sensors (60); and
a processing unit (70);
wherein, the at least one boom is movably attached to the vehicle;
wherein, the plurality of spray units are attached to the at least one boom;
wherein, the plurality of spray units are configured to spray pollen or a liquid chemical;
wherein, the at least one first actuator is configured to move the at least one boom;
wherein, the at least one second actuator is configured to control the plurality of spray units; wherein, at least one sensor (61) of the plurality of sensors is configured to measure a speed of the vehicle relative to the ground;
wherein, at least one sensor (62) of the plurality of sensors is configured to measure an air movement direction relative to the vehicle;
wherein, at least one sensor (63) of the plurality of sensors is configured to measure an air movement speed relative to the vehicle;
wherein, the processing unit is configured to determine an air movement direction relative to the ground and determine an air movement speed relative to the ground, the determination comprising utilisation of the speed of the vehicle, the air movement direction relative to the vehicle and the air movement speed relative to the vehicle; and
wherein, the processing unit is configured to control the at least one first actuator and/or the at least one second actuator; the control comprising utilisation of the determined air movement direction relative to the ground and the determined air movement speed relative to the ground.
2. Spray vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the at least one first actuator is configured to move the at least one boom in a vertical direction, and wherein the processing unit is configured to control the at least one first actuator to move the at least one boom in a vertical direction.
3. Spray vehicle according to claim 2, wherein at least one sensor (64) of the plurality of sensors is configured to provide data from which a height of the at least boom above the ground can be determined, and wherein the processing unit is configured to control the at least one first actuator to position the at least one boom at a height above the ground that depends on a magnitude of the determined air movement speed relative to the ground.
4. Spray vehicle according to claim 3, wherein the processing unit is configured to control the at least one first actuator to position the at least one boom at a height above the ground that depends on a magnitude of an air direction angle of the determined air movement direction relative to the ground.
5. Spray vehicle according to claim 4, wherein the air direction angle is the angle between the determined air movement direction relative to the ground and a projection of the fore-aft axis of the vehicle onto the ground.
6. Spray vehicle according to claim 5, wherein the height above the ground at which the at least one boom is positioned is calculated on the basis of the air movement speed relative to the ground multiplied by the cosine of the air direction angle.
7. Spray vehicle according to any of claims 3-6, wherein the processing unit is configured to control the at least one first actuator to move the at least one boom in a downwards direction when the magnitude of the determined air movement speed relative to the ground exceeds one or more threshold values.
8. Spray vehicle according to claim 7, wherein the one or more threshold values depend upon a magnitude of an air direction angle, wherein the air direction angle is the angle between the determined air movement direction relative to the ground and a projection of the fore-aft axis of the vehicle onto the ground.
9. Spray vehicle according to claim 8, wherein the one or more threshold values are a plurality of threshold values, and wherein a threshold value of the plurality of threshold values is calculated on the basis of a set air movement speed multiplied by the cosine of the air direction angle.
10. Spray vehicle according to any of claims 1-9, wherein the plurality of spray units are movably attached to the at least one boom and wherein at least one sensor (65) of the plurality of sensors is configured to provide data from which an angle of the plurality of spray units with respect to a vertical axis can be determined; and wherein the at least one second actuator (50) comprises at least one first rotator actuator (52) configured to rotate the plurality of spray units by at least one angle of rotation with respect to the vertical axis, and wherein the processing unit is configured to control one or more of the at least one first rotator actuator to rotate one or more of the plurality of spray units.
11. Spray vehicle according to claim 10, wherein a horizontal axis extends in a direction perpendicular to a fore-aft axis of the vehicle and extends in a direction perpendicular to the vertical axis; wherein at least one sensor (66) of the plurality of sensors is configured to provide data from which an angle of the plurality of spray units with respect to the horizontal axis can be determined; and wherein the at least one second actuator (50) comprises at least one second rotator actuator (54) configured to rotate the plurality of spray units by at least one angle of rotation with respect to the horizontal axis, and wherein the processing unit is configured to control one or more of the at least one second rotator actuator to rotate one or more of the plurality of spray units.
12. Spray vehicle according to any of claims 10-11, wherein the processing unit is configured to control a plurality of first rotator actuators to hold an equivalent number of spray units simultaneously at different angles of rotation with respect to the vertical axis.
13. Spray vehicle according to claim 12, wherein control of the plurality of first rotator actuators depends upon the locations of the equivalent number of spray units on the at least one boom.
14. Spray vehicle according to any of claims 11-13, wherein the processing unit is configured to control a plurality of second rotator actuators to hold an equivalent number of spray units simultaneously at different angles of rotation with respect to the horizontal axis.
15. Spray vehicle according to claim 14, wherein control of the plurality of second rotator actuators depends upon the locations of the equivalent number of spray units on the at least one boom. 16. Spray vehicle according to any of claims 10-11, wherein the processing unit is configured to control the at least one first rotator actuator and/or the at least one second rotator actuator to rotate the plurality of spray units in unison by a same angle of rotation with respect to the vertical axis and/or horizontal axis.
17. Spray vehicle according to any of claims 10-16, wherein control of the at least one second actuator by the processing unit comprises utilisation of a magnitude of the determined air movement speed relative to the ground.
18. Spray vehicle according to any of claims 10-17, wherein control of the at least one second actuator by the processing unit comprises utilisation of a magnitude of an air direction angle of the determined air movement direction relative to the ground.
19. Spray vehicle according to claim 18, wherein the air direction angle is the angle between the determined air movement direction relative to the ground and a projection of the fore-aft axis of the vehicle onto the ground.
20. Spray vehicle according to claim 19, wherein the at least one angle of rotation with respect to the vertical axis is based at least in part on the air movement speed relative to the ground multiplied by the cosine of the air direction angle.
21. Spray vehicle according to any of claims 1-20, wherein the at least one second actuator comprises at least one activation actuator (56) configured to start the plurality of spray units spraying the pollen or a liquid chemical and configured to stop the plurality of spray units spraying the pollen or a liquid chemical.
22. Spray vehicle according to claim 21, wherein the processing unit is configured to control one or more of the at least one activation actuator to stop an equivalent number of spray units from spraying the pollen or a liquid chemical based at least in part on a magnitude of the determined air movement speed relative to the ground.
23. Spray vehicle according to any of claims 21-22, wherein the processing unit is configured to control one or more of the at least one activation actuator to stop an equivalent number of spray units from spraying the pollen or a liquid chemical based at least in part on a magnitude of an air direction angle of the determined air movement direction relative to the ground.
24. Spray vehicle according to claim 23, wherein the air direction angle is the angle between the determined air movement direction relative to the ground and a projection of the fore-aft axis of the vehicle onto the ground
25. Spray vehicle according to claim 24, wherein the determination to stop a spray unit from spraying is based at least in part on the air movement speed relative to the ground multiplied by the cosine of the air direction angle.
26. Spray vehicle according to any of claims 1-25, wherein the at least one second actuator comprises at least one spray adjustment actuator (58) configured to control a droplet size of the pollen or a liquid chemical sprayed by the plurality of spray units.
27. Spray vehicle according to claim 26, wherein the processing unit is configured to control one or more of the at least one spray adjustment actuator to control the droplet size of the pollen or a liquid chemical sprayed by an equivalent number of spray units based at least in part on a magnitude of the determined air movement speed relative to the ground.
28. Spray vehicle according to claim 27, wherein the processing unit is configured to increase the droplet size on the basis of an increase in the magnitude of the determined air movement speed relative to the ground.
29. Spray vehicle according to any of claims 26-28, wherein the processing unit is configured to control one or more of the at least one spray adjustment actuator to control the droplet size of the pollen or a liquid chemical sprayed by an equivalent number of spray units based at least in part on a magnitude of an air direction angle of the determined air movement direction relative to the ground.
30. Spray vehicle according to claim 29, wherein the air direction angle is the angle between the determined air movement direction relative to the ground and a projection of the fore-aft axis of the vehicle onto the ground. 31. Spray vehicle according to claim 30, wherein the droplet size is determined at least in part on the air movement speed relative to the ground multiplied by the cosine of the air direction angle.
</claims>
</document>
