<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R33/32,G01R33/44,G01R33/465
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HEMEX HEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEISSLER, ROBERT
GALEN, PETER
BLEDSOE, James
GRIMBERG, Brian
BLANKENSHIP, D'arbra
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72752025
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DIAGNOSTIC TESTING DEVICES, SYSTEMS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
A point-of-care diagnostic system that includes a cartridge and a reader. The cartridge can contain a patient sample, such as a blood sample. The cartridge is inserted into the reader and the patient sample is analyzed. The sample can be processed for data collection and analysis to provide interpretative results indicative of a disorder, condition, disease and/or infection of the patient. For example, the data collection and analysis can differentiate between two or more species capable of causing or actually causing a parasitic infection.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A species differentiation system, comprising:
a processor configured to:
receive a data signal having a feature or parameter that represents a property, a value of the property, or a range of values of the property of a magnetic-field sensitive biomarker in a biological sample, the feature or parameter that represents the property including a time measurement measured from a time a magnetic field applied to the biological sample is removed or lowered to a time a relaxation light transmittance value reaches a relaxation threshold;
determine a relaxation time for the species sample based on the time measurement;
correlate the relaxation time with a species of the biomarker; and an output configured to output one or both of the relaxation time and the species correlated with the relaxation time.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the magnetic-field sensitive biomarker is hemozoin and the biological sample is a patient blood sample.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the data signal includes an optical signal.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the relaxation threshold represents a starting light transmittance value or range of values that is measured before the magnetic field is applied to the biological sample.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the relaxation threshold represents a Brownian relaxation threshold or range of values that indicates that the biomarker is wholly randomized or partially randomized within the biological sample.
6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a viscosity agent that increases a viscosity of a processed biological sample, wherein the processed biological is formed by processing the biological sample.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the biological sample includes a viscosity agent that increases the viscosity of the biological sample from a viscosity value of the biological sample without the viscosity agent.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine the relaxation time for the species based on a comparison of the determined relaxation time to a known value or range of values of a known species-specific relaxation time.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the biomarker is hemozoin and the species of the biomarker is one or more type of malaria parasite.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the biomarker has one or more species-specific characteristics, and wherein the processor is further configured to correlate the relaxation time with the species of the biomarker based on the one or more species-specific characteristics of the biomarker.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the output includes an external device having a display.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the output is further configured to output the species correlated with the relaxation time.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor and the output are integrated into a medical device configured to diagnose a patient.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the output includes one or more of a screen, a speaker, and a tactile output.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a treatment recommendation based on the species correlated with the relaxation time, and the output is further configured to output the treatment recommendation.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the data signal is an average of 20 or more cycles of a high/low magnetic field or an on/off magnet.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein each cycle has the same speed of magnetic field change.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein at least two cycles have different speeds of magnetic field change.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the correlating step is performed by template matching, one or more decision trees, one or more neural networks, or combinations thereof of a known data signal of the species.
20. A disease species differentiation system, comprising:
a reader configured to receive a biological sample having a biomarker, the reader having:
a magnetic field source configured to apply a magnetic field to the biological sample and remove or lower the magnetic field from the biological sample;
a timer configured to measure a relaxation time period that begins when the magnetic field is removed or lowered from the biological sample;
a reader processor configured to output the relaxation time period; and a species differentiation processor configured to receive the relaxation time period and correlate the relaxation time period with a species of the biomarker; and
an output configured to output one or both of the relaxation time period and the species of the biomarker.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the magnetic-field sensitive biomarker is hemozoin and the biological sample is a patient blood sample.
22. The system of claim 20, wherein the relaxation time period represents a Brownian relaxation threshold or range of values that indicates that the biomarker is wholly randomized or partially randomized within the biological sample.
23. The system of claim 20, further comprising a viscosity agent that increases a viscosity of a processed biological sample, wherein the processed biological is formed by processing the biological sample.
24. The system of claim 20, further comprising a viscosity agent that decreases a viscosity of the biological sample from a viscosity value of the biological sample without the viscosity agent.
25. The system of claim 20, wherein the biomarker is hemozoin and the species of the biomarker is one or more type of malaria parasite.
26. The system of claim 20, wherein the biomarker has a species-specific length, and wherein the processor is further configured to correlate the relaxation time with the species of the biomarker based on the species-specific length of the biomarker.
27. The system of claim 20, wherein the output includes an external device having a display.
28. The system of claim 20, wherein the processor and the output are integrated into a medical device configured to diagnose a patient.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the output includes one or more of a screen, a speaker, and a tactile output.
30. The system of claim 20, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a treatment recommendation based on the species of the biomarker, and the output is further configured to output the treatment recommendation.
31. The system of claim 20, wherein the data signal is an average of 2or more cycles of a high/low magnetic field or an on/off magnet.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein each cycle has the same speed of magnetic field change.
33. The system of claim 31, wherein at least two cycles have different speeds of magnetic field change.
</claims>
</document>
