<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/00,G16H30/40,G16H40/40,G16H40/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
FARRI, OLADIMEJI FEYISETAN
SREENIVASAN, RITHESH
AL HASAN, SHEIKH SADID
DATLA, VIVEK VARMA
ARORA, TILAK RAJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68835162
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUGMENTED REALITY-ENHANCED FIELD SERVICES SUPPORT
</title>

<abstract>
A non-transitory computer-readable medium stores instructions readable and executable by at least one electronic processor (20) to perform an augmented reality (AR) content generation method (100). The method includes: acquiring, with a camera (14) of an AR device (13), one or more images of a component of a medical imaging or medical therapy device (12); receiving, from a microphone (15) of the AR device, a triggering audio segment; generating one or more query data structures from both the one or more images and the triggering audio segment; retrieving AR instructional content related to the medical imaging or medical therapy device matching the generated one or more query data structures from a database (26); and outputting the AR instructional content one or more of (i) displayed superimposed on video displayed by the AR device and/or (ii) displayed on a head mounted display of the AR device and/or (iii) as audio content via a loudspeaker (27) of the AR device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions readable and executable by at least one electronic processor (20) to perform an augmented reality (AR) content generation method (100), the method comprising:
acquiring, with a camera (14) of an AR device (13), one or more images of a component of a medical imaging or medical therapy device (12);
receiving, from a microphone (15) of the AR device, a triggering audio segment;
generating one or more query data structures from both the one or more images and the triggering audio segment;
retrieving AR instructional content related to the medical imaging or medical therapy device matching the generated one or more query data structures from a database (26); and
outputting the AR instructional content one or more of (i) displayed superimposed on video displayed by the AR device and/or (ii) displayed on a head mounted display of the AR device and/or (iii) as audio content via a loudspeaker (27) of the AR device.
2. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1 wherein the outputting includes one of:
displaying the AR instructional content superimposed on video displayed by the AR device (13) comprising a cellular telephone or electronic tablet; or
displaying the AR instructional content superimposed on a head mounted display (16) of the AR device.
3. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of either one of claims 1 and 2, wherein content of the database (26) is indexed by index data structures generated using a same process as is used in generating the one or more query data structures, and
the matching comprises matching the one or more query data structures with the index data structures indexing the retrieved AR instructional content.
4. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of either one of claims 1 and 2, wherein content of the database (26) is encoded as vectors using a same process as is used in generating the one or more query vectors, and the retrieving includes:
retrieving encoded AR instructional content from the database; and decoding the encoded AR instructional content with an auto encoder (54).
5. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the generating of the one or more query data structures includes:
processing the one or more images using a neural network (NN) (50).
6. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 5, wherein the NN (50) processing the one or more images is a convolutional NN.
7. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the generating of the one or more query data structures includes:
processing the triggering audio segment using a NN (52).
8. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the NN (52) processing the triggering audio segment is a recurrent NN.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the retrieving uses a cosine similarity metric to match the generated one or more query data structures with the AR instructional content.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of any one of claims 1-9, wherein outputting the visual instructions further includes one or more of:
outputting a relevant section of a service manual related to the component; outputting annotations from the service manual related to the component.
11. An augmented reality (AR) content generation system (10), comprising:
an AR device (13) including a camera (14), a microphone (15), a display (16), and a loudspeaker (17), the camera being configured to acquire one or more images of a component of a medical imaging or medical therapy device (12);
at least one electronic processor (20) programmed to: receive, from the microphone, a triggering audio segment;
generate one or more query data structures from both the one or more images and the triggering audio segment;
retrieve AR instructional content related to the medical imaging or medical therapy device matching the generated one or more query data structures from a database (26); and
output the AR instructional content one or more of (i) displayed superimposed on video displayed by the AR device and/or (ii) displayed on a head mounted display of the AR device and/or (iii) as audio content via the loudspeaker.
12. The system (10) of claim 11, wherein the at least one electronic processor (20) is programmed to:
index content of the database (26) by index vectors generated using a same process as is used in generating the one or more query data structures, and
matching the one or more query data structures with the index vectors indexing the retrieved AR instructional content.
13. The system (10) of claim 11, wherein the at least one electronic processor (20) is programmed to:
encode content of the database (26) as vectors using a same process as is used in generating the one or more query data structures,
retrieve encoded AR instructional content from the database; and decode the encoded AR instructional content with an auto encoder (54).
14. The system (10) of any one of claims 11-13, wherein the at least one electronic processor (20) is programmed to:
generate the one or more query data structures by processing the one or more images using a convolutional neural network (CNN) (50).
15. The system (10) of any one of claims 11-14, wherein the at least one electronic processor (20) is programmed to:
generate the one or more query data structures by processing the triggering audio segment using a recurrent neural network (RNN) (52).
16. The system (10) of any one of claims 11-15, wherein the at least one electronic processor (20) is programmed to:
retrieve the AR instructional content with a cosine similarity metric to match the generated one or more query data structures with the AR instructional content.
17. The system (10) of any one of claims 11-16, wherein the at least one electronic processor (20) is programmed to output the visual instructions by one or more of:
outputting a relevant section of a service manual related to the component; outputting annotations from the service manual related to the component.
18. An augmented reality (AR) content generation method (100), comprising:
acquiring, with a camera (14) of an AR device (13), one or more images of a component of a medical imaging or medical therapy device (12);
receiving, from a microphone (15) of the AR device, a triggering audio segment;
generating one or more query data structures from both the one or more images and the triggering audio segment by processing the one or more images using a convolutional neural network (CNN) (50) and processing the triggering audio segment using a recurrent neural network (RNN) (52);
retrieving AR instructional content matching the generated one or more query data structures from a database (26); and
outputting the AR instructional content one or more of (i) displayed superimposed on video displayed by the AR device and/or (ii) displayed on a head mounted display of the AR device and/or (iii) as audio content via a loudspeaker (27) of the AR device, the visual instructions including one or more of a relevant section of a service manual related to the component and annotations from the service manual related to the component.
19. The method (100) of claim 18, wherein content of the database (26) is indexed by index vectors generated using a same process as is used in generating the one or more query data structures, and
the matching comprises matching the one or more query data structures with the index vectors indexing the retrieved AR instructional content.
20. The method (100) of claim 18, wherein content of the database (26) is encoded as data structures using a same process as is used in generating the one or more query data structures, and the retrieving includes:
retrieving encoded AR instructional content from the database; and decoding the encoded AR instructional content with an auto encoder (54).
</claims>
</document>
