<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/04,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WARNER BROS. ENTERTAINMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
OSTROVER, LEWIS, S.
LARKIN, MARY
CHAPPELL, ARVEL A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72519379
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATIC MEDIA PRODUCTION RISK ASSESSMENT USING ELECTRONIC DATASET
</title>

<abstract>
Automatic assessment of clearance risks in media production includes accessing an electronic dataset for planning a media production that includes potential risk elements, and a database of electronic records each correlated prior or anticipated current risk elements. A processor identifies risk elements in the electronic dataset, at least in part by comparing the prior or anticipated risk elements to potential risk elements detected in the electronic dataset by the one or more processors and generates a set of risk assessment measures each signifying a level of risk for a corresponding one of the risk elements comprising a level of risk. The processor may save the set in a computer memory for use by a clearance team.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method for media production risk assessment comprising:
accessing, by one or more processors, an electronic dataset for planning a media production, the dataset comprising potential risk elements;
accessing, by the one or more processors, a database of electronic records each correlated to one or more of defined risk elements from one or more prior media productions;
identifying, by the one or more processors, risk elements in the electronic dataset, at least in part by comparing the defined risk elements to potential risk elements detected in the electronic dataset by the one or more processors;
generating, by the one or more processors, a set of risk assessment measures each signifying a level of risk for a corresponding one of the risk elements comprising a level of risk; and
saving the set in a computer memory.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the identifying further comprises predicting the level of risk using a machine learning component trained to recognize similarity between the one or more prior risk elements and one or more referents of one or more symbol combinations appearing in the electronic dataset.
3. The method of claim 1 , further comprising correlating the set of risk assessment measures to one or more symbol combinations appearing in a script of the electronic dataset.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising generating an annotated version of the script at least in part by adding one or more indications of the risk assessment to each of the one or more symbol combinations.
5. The method of claim 1 , wherein the identifying comprises at least one of: analyzing an electronic script or digitally scanning one or more sets by the one or more processors.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the identifying further comprises identifying the potential risk elements using the machine learning component trained to recognize similarity between symbol combinations that connote the defined risk elements and the symbol combinations.
7. The method of claim 4, further comprising packaging the annotated version of the script in a computer-readable medium with additional content coordinated with the one or more indications of risk assessment.
8. The method of claim 2 further comprising training, by the one or more processors, the machine learning component using an iterative training algorithm.
9. The method of claim 5, wherein the digitally scanning comprises capturing an image of the one or more sets using a mobile computing device.
10. The method of claim 1 , further comprising by the one or more processors adjusting the risk assessment based on context-sensitive factors for referents of symbol combinations appearing in the electronic dataset.
1 1. The method of claim 4, further comprising by the one or more processors, including in the indication of risk assessment a reference to digital exclusion images.
12. An apparatus for automatic assessment of clearance risks in media production, the apparatus comprising at least one processor coupled to a memory, the memory holding program instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the apparatus to perform:
accessing an electronic dataset for planning a media production, the dataset comprising potential risk elements;
accessing a database of electronic records each correlated to one or more of defined risk elements from one or more prior media productions;
identifying risk elements in the electronic dataset, at least in part by comparing the defined risk elements to potential risk elements detected in the electronic dataset by the one or more processors;
generating a set of risk assessment measures each signifying a level of risk for a corresponding one of the risk elements comprising a level of risk; and
saving the set in a computer memory.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the memory holds further instructions for the identifying at least in part by predicting the level of risk using a machine learning component trained to recognize similarity between the one or more defined risk elements and one or more referents of one or more symbol combinations appearing in the electronic dataset.
14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the memory holds further instructions for correlating the set of risk assessment measures to one or more symbol combinations appearing in a script of the electronic dataset.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the memory holds further instructions for generating an annotated version of the script at least in part by adding one or more indications of the risk assessment to each of the one or more symbol combinations.
16. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the memory holds further instructions for the identifying by at least one of: analyzing an electronic script or digitally scanning one or more sets by the one or more processors.
17. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the memory holds further instructions for the identifying at least in part by identifying the potential risk elements using the machine learning component trained to recognize similarity between symbol combinations that connote the defined risk elements and the symbol combinations.
18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the memory holds further instructions for packaging the annotated version of the script in a computer-readable medium with additional content coordinated with the one or more indications of risk assessment.
19. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the memory holds further instructions for training, by the one or more processors, the machine learning component using an iterative training algorithm.
20. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the memory holds further instructions for the digitally scanning by capturing receiving an image of the one or more sets from a mobile computing device.
21. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the memory holds further instructions for adjusting the risk assessment based on context-sensitive factors for referents of symbol combinations appearing in the electronic dataset.
22. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the memory holds further instructions for including in the indication of risk assessment a reference to digital exclusion images.
23. An apparatus for automatic assessment of clearance risks in media production, the apparatus comprising:
means for accessing an electronic dataset for planning a media production, the dataset comprising potential risk elements;
means for accessing a database of electronic records each correlated to one or more of defined risk elements from one or more prior media productions;
means for identifying risk elements in the electronic dataset, at least in part by comparing the defined risk elements to potential risk elements detected in the electronic dataset by the one or more processors;
means for generating a set of risk assessment measures each signifying a level of risk for a corresponding one of the risk elements comprising a level of risk; and
means for saving the set in a computer memory.
</claims>
</document>
