<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOROZAN, ION
TOLICA, IURI
SANDU, ANDREEA
RAVIPATI, Srinivas Pushkar
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70110382
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROFILE INFORMATION LAYOUT CUSTOMIZATION IN COMPUTER SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for customization of user interfaces in a computing system are disclosed herein. In one embodiment, a method includes receiving, at a server, data representing a change signal from a first client device of a first user. The change signal indicates that the first user has modified a display layout of profile information of a person of interest viewed by the first user on the first client device. The method also includes identifying a second user having a viewing context that is sufficiently similar to the first user. The method further includes automatically applying the modified display layout of the profile information on a second client device corresponding to the identified second user upon receiving a request from the second user for viewing the profile information of the person of interest.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for customization of user interfaces in a computing system having a server interconnected to client devices by a computer network, the method comprising: receiving, at the server, data representing a change signal from a first client device of a first user, the change signal indicating that the first user has modified a display layout of profile information of a person of interest viewed by the first user on the first client device; and
in response to receiving the change signal, at the server,
developing or updating an interface model representing a correlation between the modified display layout of the profile information and a viewing context of the first user;
identifying a second user based on the developed or updated interface model, a similarity level between a viewing context of the second user and that of the first viewer is above a preset threshold; and
automatically applying the modified display layout of the profile information on a second client device corresponding to the identified second user upon receiving a request from the second user for viewing the profile information of the person of interest.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the viewing context includes data representing one or more of a relationship between the first or second user and the person of interest, a profile of the first or second user, or a usage pattern of the first or second user related to viewing the profile information of the person of interest.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the profile information includes data representing one or more of contact information, previously exchanged emails between the first user and the person, a calendar of the person, or one or more documents associated with the person.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein:
the display layout includes multiple sections; and
the received data representing the change signal includes data indicating that the first user has added, removed, modified, reordered, or rearranged one of the sections.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein:
the display layout includes multiple sections;
the received data representing the change signal includes data indicating that the first user has added, removed, modified, reordered, or rearranged one of the sections; and
developing or updating the interface model includes developing or updating the interface model between the modified display layout with the one of the sections added, removed, modified, reordered, or rearranged and the viewing context of the first user.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein:
the display layout includes multiple sections;
the received data representing the change signal includes data indicating that the first user has added, removed, modified, reordered, or rearranged one of the sections; and
automatically applying the modified display layout includes automatically applying the modified display layout with the one of the sections added, removed, modified, reordered, or rearranged on the second client device upon receiving a request from the second user for viewing the profile information of the person of interest.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein:
developing or updating the interface model includes identifying a weight value individually for assigned numerical values corresponding to a relationship between the first user and the person of interest, a profile of the first user, and a usage pattern of the first user related to viewing the profile information of the person of interest; and
identifying the second user includes:
multiplying the weight values to assigned numerical values corresponding to a relationship between the second user and the person of interest, a profile of the second user, and a usage pattern of the second user related to viewing the profile information of the person of interest; deriving a sum of products from the multiplying operation;
determining whether the sum exceeds the preset threshold; and
in response to determining that the sum exceeds the preset threshold, indicating the second user has a viewing context similar to that of the first viewer.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein:
developing or updating the interface model includes identifying a weight value individually for assigned numerical values corresponding to a relationship between the first user and the person of interest, a profile of the first user, and a usage pattern of the first user related to viewing the profile information of the person of interest; and
identifying the second user includes:
multiplying the weight values to assigned numerical values corresponding to a relationship between the second user and the person of interest, a profile of the second user, and a usage pattern of the second user related to viewing the profile information of the person of interest; deriving a sum of products from the multiplying operation; determining whether the sum exceeds a preset threshold; and in response to determining that the sum exceeds the preset threshold, automatically applying the modified display layout of the profile information on a second client device corresponding to the identified second user upon receiving a request from the second user for viewing the profile information of the person of interest.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising in response to detecting the second user adopting the automatically applied modified display layout, further customizing a view of the modified display layout in accordance with a usage pattern of the second user.
10. A computing device for customization of user interfaces in a computing system, the computing device comprising:
a processor; and
a memory operatively coupled to the processor, the memory containing an interface model representing a correlation between a display layout for outputting profile information of a person of interest to a first user and a viewing context of the first user, the memory also having instructions executable by the processor to cause the computing device to perform a process according to one of claims 1-9.
</claims>
</document>
