<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/095,B60W60/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZOOX
</assignee>

<inventors>
AKELLA, ABISHEK
GHAFARIANZADEH, MAHSA
SIEBERT, Kenneth
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71670436
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PLANNING ACCOMMODATIONS FOR REVERSING VEHICLES
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for determining that a first vehicle is associated with a reverse state, and controlling a second vehicle based on the reverse state, are described herein. In some examples, the first vehicle may provide an indication that the first vehicle will be executing a reverse maneuver, such as with reverse lights on the vehicle or by positioning at an angle relative to a road or parking space to allow for the reverse maneuver into a desired location. A planning system of the second vehicle (such as an autonomous vehicle) may receive sensor data and determine a variety of these indications to determine a probability that the vehicle is going to execute a reverse maneuver. The second vehicle can further determine a likely trajectory of the reverse maneuver and can provide appropriate accommodations (e.g., time and/or space) to allow the second vehicle to execute the maneuver safely and efficiently.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising:
one or more processors; and
one or more computer-readable media storing instructions executable by the one or more processors, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the system to perform operations comprising:
receiving sensor data captured by a sensor in an environment;
determining that the sensor data represents a vehicle;
determining a feature associated with the vehicle, the feature being of a feature type that indicates whether the vehicle is associated with a reverse state;
inputting the feature into a machine-learned model trained to predict vehicle behavior based at least in part on the feature type;
receiving, from the machine-learned model, an indication that the vehicle associated with the reverse state;
predicting, based at least in part on the indication that the vehicle is associated with the reverse state, a trajectory associated with the vehicle; and
determining, based at least in part on the reverse state, a maneuver for an autonomous vehicle to perform.
2. The system of claim 1 , wherein the feature type is indicative of a light associated with vehicles, and wherein the machine-learned model is trained using training image data annotated to indicate:
a ground truth state of a lighting state of the light at a time that the training image data is captured; and a direction of travel of a training vehicle of the vehicles for an amount of time proximate the time that the training image data was captured.
3. The system of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the vehicle is a first vehicle, the operations further comprising:
determining a first velocity of the first vehicle; and
determining a first difference between the first velocity of the first vehicle and a speed limit at a location of the first vehicle in the environment; or
a second difference between the first velocity of the first vehicle and a second velocity of a second vehicle in the environment, wherein the machine-learned model is further trained to predict the vehicle behavior based at least in part on differences in vehicle speeds, and one or more of the first difference or the second difference are input into the machine-learned model.
4. The system of any one of claims 1-3, the operations further comprising:
determining a width associated with the vehicle; and
associating the width with a length of the trajectory,
wherein the maneuver is associated with the autonomous vehicle circumnavigating at least the width along the length of the trajectory.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the maneuver comprises maintaining a position of the autonomous vehicle for a duration of time associated with the vehicle executing the trajectory.
6. The system of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the feature is a first feature, the operations further comprising:
determining an angle of the vehicle relative to a second feature of the environment,
wherein the machine-learned model is further trained to predict the vehicle behavior based at least in part on environmental features and one or more of the angle or the second feature are input into the machinelearned model.
7. The system of any one of claims 1-6, the operations further comprising:
determining a region proximate the vehicle that the vehicle is permitted to reverse into, wherein predicting the trajectory is further based on a location of the region relative to the vehicle;
determining that the vehicle is located within a threshold distance of the region;
determining a first velocity of the vehicle at the location; and
determining a difference between the first velocity of the vehicle and one or more of a second velocity of another vehicle or a speed limit associated with the location,
wherein the machine-learned model is further trained to predict vehicle behavior based at least in part on environmental features, and one or more of the location, the first velocity, and the difference are input into the machine-learned model.
8. A method comprising:
receiving sensor data captured by a sensor in an environment;
determining that the sensor data represents a vehicle; determining a feature associated with the vehicle, the feature being of a feature type that indicates whether the vehicle is associated with a reverse state;
inputting the feature into a machine-learned model trained to predict vehicle behavior based at least in part on the feature type;
receiving, from the machine-learned model, an indication that the vehicle is associated with the reverse state; and
predicting, based at least in part on the indication that the vehicle is associated with the reverse state, a trajectory associated with the vehicle.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the indication that the vehicle is associated with the reverse state comprises an angle of the vehicle relative to a second feature of the environment determined from map data,
wherein predicting the trajectory of the vehicle is further based at least in part on the angle of the vehicle relative to the second feature.
10. The method of claim 8 or claim 9, wherein predicting the trajectory of the vehicle comprises determining that the vehicle is preparing to parallel park, the method further comprising:
controlling an autonomous vehicle to:
maintain a stopped position for a duration of the vehicle to parallel park; or enter a traffic lane to traverse around the vehicle in the environment.
11. The method of any one of claims 8-10, further comprising:
determining a region proximate the vehicle that the vehicle is permitted to reverse into,
wherein predicting the trajectory is further based on a location of the region relative to the vehicle.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the region comprises one or more of:
a lane of traffic;
a parking space; or
a driveway.
13. The method of claim 11 or claim 12, wherein the location is a first location, the method further comprising:
determining that the vehicle is at a second location within a threshold distance of the region;
determining a first velocity of the vehicle at the second location; and determining a difference between the first velocity of the vehicle and one or more of a second velocity of another vehicle or a speed limit associated with the second location,
wherein the machine-learned model is further trained to predict vehicle behavior based at least in part on environmental features, and one or more of the first location, the second location, the first velocity, and the difference are input into the machine-learned model.
14. The method of any one of claims 8-13, wherein the feature is indicative of a light associated with the vehicle, wherein the machine-learned model comprises a classifier trained to classify a reversing state of the vehicle into one or more of:
a reverse state;
a non-reverse state; or
an intending to reverse state.
15. A computer program product comprising instructions that, when run on a computer, implement a method as claimed in any one of claims 8-14.
</claims>
</document>
