<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61K39/395,C07K16/18,C07K16/36,C07K16/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERSEAU THERAPEUTICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
NOVOBRANTSEVA, TATIANA
WAHLE, JOSEPH
FELDMAN, IGOR
SAZINSKY, STEPHEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74060343
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ANTI-CD53 COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR MODULATING MYELOID CELL INFLAMMATORY PHENOTYPES AND USES THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention is based, in part, on the discovery of anti-CD53 compositions ( e.g., monoclonal antibodies and antigen-binding fragments thereof), that regulate inflammatory phenotypes of myeloid cells, such as suppressive myeloid cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and/or dendritic cells, including polarization, activation, and/or function, and methods of using such anti-CD53 compositions for therapeutic, diagnostic, prognostic, and screening purposes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, that binds myeloid cells expressing CD53 polypeptide and modulates an inflammatory phenotype of the myeloid cells, optionally wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, increases the inflammatory phenotype or decreases the inflammatory phenotype, and/or optionally wherein the myeloid cells comprise suppressive myeloid cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and/or dendritic cells. 2. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of claim 1, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, has one or more of the following properties:
a) modulates the inflammatory phenotype of the myeloid cells by resulting in one or more of the following after contact with the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof:
i) modulated expression and/or secretion of cluster of differentiation 80 (CD80), CD86, MHCII, MHCI, interleukin 1-beta (IL-1b), IL-6, CCL3, CCL4, CXCL10, CXCL9, GM-CSF and/or tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a);
ii) modulated expression and/or secretion of CD206, CD163, CD16, CD53, VSIG4, PSGL-1, TGFb and/or IL-10;
iii) modulated secretion of at least one cytokine or chemokine selected from the group consisting of IL-1b, TNF-a, IL-12, IL-18, GM-CSF, CCL3, CCL4, and IL-23;
iv) modulated ratio of expression of IL-1b, IL-6, and/or TNF-a to expression of IL-10;
v) modulated CD8+ cytotoxic T cell activation;
vi) modulated recruitment of CD8+ cytotoxic T cell activation; vii) modulated CD4+ helper T cell activity;
viii) modulated recruitment of CD4+ helper T cell activity;
ix) modulated NK cell activity;
x) modulated recruitment of NK cell;
xi) modulated neutrophil activity;
xii) modulated macrophage and/or dendritic cell activity; and/or xiii) modulated spindle-shaped morphology, flatness of appearance, and/or number of dendrites, as assessed by microscopy, optionally wherein A) i) is increased, ii) is decreased, iii) is increased, iv) is increased, v) is increased, vi) is increased, vii) is increased, viii) is increased, ix) is increased, x) is increased, xi) is increased, xii) is increased, and/or xiii) is increased; or B) i) is decreased, ii) is increased, iii) is decreased, iv) is decreased, v) is decreased, vi) is decreased, vii) is decreased, viii) is decreased, ix) is decreased, x) is decreased, xi) is decreased, xii) is decreased, and/or xiii) is decreased;
b) specifically binds CD53 as compared to other CD53 family members
(tetraspanins);
c) selectively binds human CD53 polypeptide at least 1.1-fold greater than to one or more other CD53 family members (tetraspanins), wherein the one or more CD53 family members (tetraspanins) are expressed on cells or in vitro;
d) binds to the human CD53 polypeptide with a kD of between about 0.00001 nanomolar (nM) and 1000 nM, optionally as measured in a flow cytometry assay; e) binds to the extracellular loop 1 (EC1) and/or extracellular loop 2 (EC2) domain of human CD53 polypeptide;
f) competes with, inhibits, or blocks binding of CD53 with CD53 ligand;
g) cross-reacts with cynomolgus CD53 polypeptide;
h) competes or cross-competes with an antibody that binds CD53 polypeptide, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, listed in Table 2;
i) is obtainable as a monoclonal antibody deposited with ATCC described herein; j) does not activate unstimulated monocytes;
k) does not have an ADCC activity against CD53-expressing cells;
l) does not have a CDC activity against CD53-expressing cells;
m) does not kill CD53-expressing cells upon binding the CD53-expressing cells and/or internalization by the CD53-expressing cells;
n) is not conjugated to another therapeutic moiety, optionally wherein the another therapeutic moiety is a cytotoxic agent; and/or
o) has an antitumor activity in vivo. 3. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of claim 1 or 2, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, comprises: a) a heavy chain CDR sequence with at least about 90% identity to a heavy chain CDR sequence selected from the group consisting of the sequences listed in Table 2; and/or b) a light chain CDR sequence with at least about 90% identity to a light chain CDR sequence selected from the group consisting of the sequences listed in Table 2. 4. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, comprises: a) a heavy chain sequence with at least about 90% identity to a heavy chain sequence selected from the group consisting of the heavy chain sequences listed in Table 2; and/or
b) a light chain sequence with at least about 90% identity to a light chain sequence selected from the group consisting of the light chain sequences listed in Table 2. 5. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, comprises: a) a heavy chain CDR sequence selected from the group consisting of the heavy chain sequences listed in Table 2; and/or
b) a light chain CDR sequence selected from the group consisting of the light chain sequences listed in Table 2. 6. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, comprises: a) a heavy chain sequence selected from the group consisting of the heavy chain sequences listed in Table 2; and/or
b) a light chain sequence selected from the group consisting of the light chain sequences listed in Table 2. 7. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, is chimeric, humanized, murine, or human. 8. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, is detectably labeled, comprises an effector domain, and/or comprises an Fc domain.
9. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-7, selected from the group consisting of Fv, Fav, F(ab')2, Fab', dsFv, scFv, sc(Fv)2, Fde, sdFv, single domain antibody (dAb), and diabodies fragments. 10. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, comprises an immunoglobulin constant domain selected from the group consisting of IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgA1, IgA2, IgD, IgE, and IgM. 11. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, comprises a constant domain derived from a human immunoglobulin. 12. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-11, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, is conjugated to an agent, optionally wherein the agent is selected from the group consisting of a binding protein, an enzyme, a drug, a chemotherapeutic agent, a biologic agent, a toxin, a radionuclide, an immunomodulatory agent, a detectable moiety, and a tag. 13. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1- 12, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. 14. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 13, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient is selected from the group consisting of a diluent, solubilizing agent, emulsifying agent, preservative, and adjuvant. 15. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 13 or 14, wherein the pharmaceutical composition has less than about 20 EU endotoxin/mg protein. 16. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 13-15, wherein the pharmaceutical composition has less than about 1 EU endotoxin/mg protein. 17. An isolated nucleic acid molecule that i) hybridizes, under stringent conditions, with the complement of a nucleic acid encoding an immunoglobulin heavy and/or light chain polypeptide of a monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-12; ii) has a sequence with at least about 90% identity across its full length to a nucleic acid encoding an immunoglobulin heavy and/or light chain polypeptide of a monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-12; or iii) encodes an immunoglobulin heavy and/or light chain polypeptide selected from the group consisting of polypeptide sequences listed in Table 2. 18. An isolated immunoglobulin heavy and/or light chain polypeptide encoded by the nucleic acid of claim 17. 19. A vector comprising the isolated nucleic acid of claim 17, optionally wherein the vector is an expression vector. 20. A host cell which comprises the isolated nucleic acid of claim 17, that:
a) expresses the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-12;
b) comprises the immunoglobulin heavy and/or light chain polypeptide of claim 18; c) comprises the vector of claim 19; and/or
d) is accessible as a monoclonal antibody deposited under an ATCC deposit accession number. 21. A device or kit comprising at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-12, said device or kit optionally comprising a label to detect the at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, or a complex comprising the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof. 22. A device or kit comprising the pharmaceutical composition, isolated nucleic acid molecule, isolated unoglobulin heavy and/or light chain polypeptide, vector, and/or host cell of any one of claims 13-20. 23. A method of producing at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-12, which method comprises the steps of: (i) culturing a transformed host cell which has been transformed by a nucleic acid comprising a sequence encoding the at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, according to any one of claims 1-12 under conditions suitable to allow expression of said monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof; and (ii) recovering the expressed monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof. 24. A method of detecting the presence or level of an CD53 polypeptide comprising obtaining a sample and detecting said polypeptide in the sample by use of at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, according to any one of claims 1-12. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigenbinding fragment thereof, forms a complex with the CD53 polypeptide and the complex is detected in the form of an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), radioimmune assay (RIA), immunochemical assay, Western blot, mass spectrometry assay, nuclear magnetic resonance assay, or using an intracellular flow assay. 26. A method of generating myeloid cells having a modulated inflammatory phenotype after contact with an agent of any one of claims 1-20 comprising contacting myeloid cells with an effective amount of the agent, optionally wherein the inflammatory phenotype is increased or wherein the inflammatory phenotype is decreased, and/or optionally wherein the myeloid cells comprise suppressive myeloid cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and/or dendritic cells. 27. The method of claim 25, wherein the myeloid cells having a modulated
inflammatory phenotype exhibit one or more of the following after contact with the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof:
a) modulated expression and/or secretion of cluster of differentiation 80 (CD80), CD86, MHCII, MHCI, interleukin 1-beta (IL-1b), IL-6, CCL3, CCL4, CXCL10, CXCL9, GM-CSF and/or tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a);
b) modulated expression and/or secretion of CD206, CD163, CD16, CD53, VSIG4, PSGL-1, TGFb and/or IL-10;
c) modulated secretion of at least one cytokine or chemokine selected from the group consisting of IL-1b, TNF-a, IL-12, IL-18, GM-CSF, CCL3, CCL4, and IL-23;
d) modulated ratio of expression of IL-1b, IL-6, and/or TNF-a to expression of IL- 10;
e) modulated CD8+ cytotoxic T cell activation;
f) modulated recruitment of CD8+ cytotoxic T cell activation; g) modulated CD4+ helper T cell activity;
h) modulated recruitment of CD4+ helper T cell activity;
i) modulated NK cell activity;
j) modulated recruitment of NK cell;
k) modulated neutrophil activity;
l) modulated macrophage and/or dendritic cell activity; and/or
m) modulated spindle-shaped morphology, flatness of appearance, and/or number of dendrites, as assessed by microscopy, optionally wherein A) i) is increased, ii) is decreased, iii) is increased, iv) is increased, v) is increased, vi) is increased, vii) is increased, viii) is increased, ix) is increased, x) is increased, xi) is increased, xii) is increased, and/or xiii) is increased; or B) i) is decreased, ii) is increased, iii) is decreased, iv) is decreased, v) is decreased, vi) is decreased, vii) is decreased, viii) is decreased, ix) is decreased, x) is decreased, xi) is decreased, xii) is decreased, and/or xiii) is decreased. 28. The method of claim 26 or 27, wherein the myeloid cells contacted with the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, are comprised within a population of cells and the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, a) increases the number of Type 1 and/or M1 macrophages, and/or decreases the number of Type 2 and/or M2 macrophages; or b) decreases the number of Type 1 and/or M1 macrophages, and/or increases the number of Type 2 and/or M2 macrophages, in the population of cells. 29. The method of any one of claims 26-28, wherein the myeloid cells contacted with the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, are comprised within a population of cells and the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, a) increases the ratio of i) to ii), wherein i) is Type 1 and/or M1 macrophages and ii) is Type 2 and/or M2 macrophages in the population of cells; or b) decreases the ratio of i) to ii), wherein i) is Type 1 and/or M1 macrophages and ii) is Type 2 and/or M2 macrophages in the population of cells. 30. The method of any one of claims 26-29, wherein the myeloid cells comprise Type 1 macrophages, M1 macrophages, Type 2 macrophages, M2 macrophages, M2c
macrophages, M2d macrophages, tumor-associated macrophages (TAM), CD11b+ cells, CD14+ cells, and/or CD11b+/CD14+ cells.
31. The method of any one of claims 26-30, wherein the myeloid cells are contacted in vitro or ex vivo. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the myeloid cells are primary myeloid cells. 33. The method of claim 31 or 32, wherein the myeloid cells are purified and/or cultured prior to contact with the agent. 34. The method of any one of claims 26-33, wherein the myeloid cells are contacted in vivo. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the myeloid cells are contacted in vivo by systemic, peritumoral, or intratumoral administration of the agent. 36. The method of claim 34 or 35, wherein the myeloid cells are contacted in a tissue microenvironment. 37. The method of any one of claims 26-36, further comprising contacting the myeloid cells with at least one immunotherapeutic agent that modulates the inflammatory phenotype, optionally wherein the immunotherapeutic agent comprises an immune checkpoint inhibitor, immune-stimulatory agonist, inflammatory agent, cells, a cancer vaccine, and/or a virus. 38. A composition comprising a myeloid cell generated according to a method of any one of claims 26-37, optionally wherein the myeloid cells comprise suppressive myeloid cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and/or dendritic cells. 39. A method of modulating an inflammatory phenotype of myeloid cells in a subject after contact with an agent of any one of claims 1-20 comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of the agent, optionally wherein the inflammatory phenotype is increased or wherein the inflammatory phenotype is decreased, and/or optionally wherein the myeloid cells comprise suppressive myeloid cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and/or dendritic cells. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein the myeloid cells having the modulated inflammatory phenotype exhibit one or more of the following after contact with the agent: a) modulated expression and/or secretion of cluster of differentiation 80 (CD80), CD86, MHCII, MHCI, interleukin 1-beta (IL-1b), IL-6, CCL3, CCL4, CXCL10, CXCL9, GM-CSF and/or tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a);
b) modulated expression and/or secretion of CD206, CD163, CD16, CD53, VSIG4, PSGL-1 and/or IL-10;
c) modulated secretion of at least one cytokine selected from the group consisting of IL-1b, TNF-a, IL-12, IL-18, and IL-23;
d) modulated ratio of expression of IL-1b, IL-6, and/or TNF-a to expression of IL- 10;
e) modulated CD8+ cytotoxic T cell activation;
f) modulated CD4+ helper T cell activity;
g) modulated NK cell activity;
h) modulated neutrophil activity;
i) modulated macrophage and/or dendritic cell activity; and/or
j) modulated spindle-shaped morphology, flatness of appearance, and/or number of dendrites, as assessed by microscopy, optionally wherein A) a) is increased, b) is decreased, c) is increased, d) is increased, e) is increased, f) is increased, g) is increased, h) is increased, i) is increased, and/or j) is increased; or B) a) is decreased, b) is increased, c) is decreased, e) is decreased, e) is decreased, f) is decreased, g) is decreased, h) is decreased, i) is decreased, and/or j) is increased. 41. The method of claim 39 or 40, wherein the agent or agents a) increase the number of Type 1 and/or M1 macrophages, decrease the number of Type 2 and/or M2 macrophages, and/or increase the ratio of i) to ii), wherein i) is Type 1 and/or M1 macrophages and ii) is Type 2 and/or M2 macrophages, or b) decrease the number of Type 1 and/or M1 macrophages, increase the number of Type 2 and/or M2 macrophages, and/or decrease the ratio of i) to ii), wherein i) is Type 1 and/or M1 macrophages and ii) is Type 2 and/or M2 macrophages, in the subject. 42. The method of any one of claims 39-41, wherein the number and/or activity of cytotoxic CD8+ T cells in the subject is increased or decreased after administration of the agent.
43. The method of any one of claims 39-42, wherein the myeloid cells comprise Type 1 macrophages, M1 macrophages, Type 2 macrophages, M2 macrophages, M2c
macrophages, M2d macrophages, tumor-associated macrophages (TAM), CD11b+ cells, CD14+ cells, and/or CD11b+/CD14+ cells. 44. The method of any one of claims 39-43, wherein the agent is administered in vivo by systemic, peritumoral, or intratumoral administration of the agent. 45. The method of claim 44, wherein the agent contacts the myeloid cells in a tissue microenvironment. 46. The method of any one of claims 39-45, further comprising contacting the myeloid cells with at least one immunotherapeutic agent that modulates the inflammatory phenotype, optionally wherein the immunotherapeutic agent comprises an immune checkpoint inhibitor, immune-stimulatory agonist, inflammatory agent, cells, a cancer vaccine, and/or a virus. 47. A method of modulating inflammation in a subject comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of myeloid cells contacted with an agent of any one of claims 1-20, optionally wherein the inflammation is increased or wherein the inflammation is decreased, and/or optionally wherein the myeloid cells comprise suppressive myeloid cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and/or dendritic cells. 48. The method of claim 47, wherein the myeloid cells comprise Type 1 macrophages, M1 macrophages, Type 2 macrophages, M2 macrophages, M2c macrophages, M2d macrophages, tumor-associated macrophages (TAM), CD11b+ cells, CD14+ cells, and/or CD11b+/CD14+ cells. 49. The method of claim 47 or 48 wherein the myeloid cells are genetically engineered, autologous, syngeneic, or allogeneic relative to the subject's myeloid cells. 50. The method of any one of claims 47-49, wherein the agent is administered systemically, peritumorally, or intratumorally.
51. A method of sensitizing cancer cells in a subject to cytotoxic CD8+ T cell-mediated killing and/or immune checkpoint therapy comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an agent of any one of claims 1-20. 52. A method of sensitizing cancer cells in a subject afflicted with a cancer to cytotoxic CD8+ T cell-mediated killing and/or immune checkpoint therapy comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of myeloid cells contacted with an agent of any one of claims 1-20, optionally wherein the myeloid cells comprise suppressive myeloid cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and/or dendritic cells. 53. The method of claim 52, wherein the myeloid cells comprise Type 1 macrophages, M1 macrophages, Type 2 macrophages, M2 macrophages, M2c macrophages, M2d macrophages, tumor-associated macrophages (TAM), CD11b+ cells, CD14+ cells, and/or CD11b+/CD14+ cells. 54. The method of claim 52 or 53, wherein the myeloid cells are genetically engineered, autologous, syngeneic, or allogeneic relative to the subject's myeloid cells. 55. The method of any one of claims 51-54, wherein the agent is administered systemically, peritumorally, or intratumorally. 56. The method of any one of claims 51-55, further comprising treating the cancer in the subject by administering to the subject at least one immunotherapy, optionally wherein the immunotherapy comprises an immune checkpoint inhibitor, immune-stimulatory agonist, inflammatory agent, cells, a cancer vaccine, and/or a virus. 57. The method of claim 56, wherein the immune checkpoint is selected from the group consisting of PD-1, PD-L1, PD-L2, and CTLA-4. 58. The method of claim 57, wherein the immune checkpoint is PD-1. 59. The method of any one of claims 51-58, further comprising treating the cancer in the subject by administering to the subject an additional therapeutic agent or regimen for treating cancer, optionally, wherein the additional therapeutic agent or regimen is selected from the group consisting chimeric antigen receptors, chemotherapy, radiation, targeted therapy, and surgery.
60. The method of any one of claims 51-59, wherein the agent reduces the number of proliferating cells in the cancer and/or reduce the volume or size of a tumor comprising the cancer cells. 61. The method of any one of claims 51-60, wherein the agent increases the amount and/or activity of CD8+ T cells infiltrating a tumor comprising the cancer cells. 62. The method of any one of claims 51-61, wherein the agent a) increases the amount and/or activity of M1 macrophages infiltrating a tumor comprising the cancer cells and/or b) decreases the amount and/or activity of M2 macrophages infiltrating a tumor comprising the cancer cells. 63. The method of any one of claims 51-62, further comprising administering to the subject at least one additional therapy or regimen for treating the cancer. 64. The method of any one of claims 51-63, wherein the therapy is administered before, concurrently with, or after the agent. 65. A method of identifying myeloid cells that can modulate an inflammatory phenotype thereof by modulating at least one target comprising:
a) determining the amount and/or activity of at least one target listed in Table 1 from the myeloid cells using an agent, wherein the agent is at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-12;
b) determining the amount and/or activity of the at least one target in a control using the agent; and
c) comparing the amount and/or activity of the at least one target detected in steps a) and b);
wherein the presence of, or an increase in, the amount and/or activity of, the at least one target listed in Table 1, in the myeloid cells relative to the control amount and/or activity of the at least one target indicates that the myeloid cells can modulate the inflammatory phenotype thereof by modulating the at least one target, optionally wherein the inflammatory phenotype is increased or wherein the inflammatory phenotype is decreased, and/or optionally wherein the myeloid cells comprise suppressive myeloid cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and/or dendritic cells.
66. The method of claim 65, further comprising contacting the cells with,
recommending, prescribing, or administering an agent that modulates the at least one target listed in Table 1. 67. The method of claim 65, further comprising contacting the cells with,
recommending, prescribing, or administering therapy other than an agent that modulates the at least one target listed in Table 1 if the subject is determined not to benefit from modulating an inflammatory phenotype by modulating the at least one target. 68. The method of claim 67, wherein the therapy is a cancer therapy, optionally wherein the cancer therapy is immunotherapy. 69. The method of any one of claims 65-68, further comprising contacting the cells with and/or administering at least one additional agent that increases or decreases an immune response. 70. The method of claim 69, wherein the additional agent is selected from the group consisting of targeted therapy, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and/or hormonal therapy. 71. The method of any one of claims 65-70, wherein the control is from a member of the same species to which the subject belongs. 72. The method of any one of claims 65-71, wherein the control is a sample comprising cells. 73. The method of any one of claims 65-72, wherein the subject is afflicted with a cancer or an immunological disorder. 74. The method of any one of claims 65-73, wherein the control is a sample from the subject. 75. The method of any one of claims 65-73, wherein the control is a non-cancer sample from the subject. 76. A method for predicting the clinical outcome of a subject afflicted with a cancer or an immunological disorder, the method comprising: a) determining the amount and/or activity of at least one target listed in Table 1 from myeloid cells from the subject using an agent, wherein the agent is at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-12; b) determining the amount and/or activity of the at least one target from a control having a poor clinical outcome using the agent; and
c) comparing the amount and/or activity of the at least one target in the subject sample and in the sample from the control subject;
wherein the absence of, or decrease in, the amount and/or activity of the at least one target listed in Table 1 from the myeloid cells from the cancer subject as compared to the amount and/or activity in the control, indicates that the cancer subject does not have a poor clinical outcome; or wherein the presence of, or an increase in, the amount and/or activity of the at least one target listed in Table 1 from the myeloid cells from the immunological disorder subject as compared to the amount and/or activity in the control, indicates that the immunological disorder subject does not have a poor clinical outcome, optionally wherein the myeloid cells comprise suppressive myeloid cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and/or dendritic cells. 77. A method for monitoring the inflammatory phenotype of myeloid cells in a subject, the method comprising:
a) detecting in a first subject sample at a first point in time the amount and/or activity of at least one target listed in Table 1 from myeloid cells from the subject using an agent, wherein the agent is at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-12;
b) repeating step a) using a subsequent sample comprising myeloid cells obtained at a subsequent point in time; and
c) comparing the amount or activity of the at least one target listed in Table 1 detected in steps a) and b),
wherein the presence of, or an increase in, the amount and/or activity of, the at least one target listed in Table 1 from the myeloid cells from the subsequent sample as compared to the amount and/or activity from the myeloid cells from the first sample indicates that the subject's myeloid cells have an upregulated inflammatory phenotype; or
wherein the absence of, or a decrease in, the amount and/or activity of, the at least one target listed in Table 1 from the myeloid cells from the subsequent sample as compared to the amount and/or activity from the myeloid cells from the first sample indicates that the subject's myeloid cells have a downregulated inflammatory phenotype, optionally wherein the myeloid cells comprise suppressive myeloid cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and/or dendritic cells. 78. The method of claim 77, wherein the first and/or at least one subsequent sample comprises myeloid cells that are cultured in vitro. 79. The method of claim 77, wherein the first and/or at least one subsequent sample comprises myeloid cells that are not cultured in vitro. 80. The method of any one of claims 77-79, wherein the first and/or at least one subsequent sample is a portion of a single sample or pooled samples obtained from the subject. 81. The method of any one of claims 77-80, wherein the sample comprises blood, serum, peritumoral tissue, and/or intratumoral tissue obtained from the subject. 82. A method of assessing the efficacy of a test agent for modulating an inflammatory phenotype of myeloid cells in a subject, comprising:
a) detecting in a subject sample comprising myeloid cells at a first point in time i) the amount or activity of at least one target listed in Table 1 in or on the myeloid cells using an agent, wherein the agent is at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-12 and/or ii) an inflammatory phenotype of the myeloid cells;
b) repeating step a) during at least one subsequent point in time after the myeloid cells are contacted with the test agent; and
c) comparing the value of i) and/or ii) detected in steps a) and b), wherein the presence of, or an increase in, the amount and/or activity of the at least one target listed in Table 1, and/or an increase in ii) in the subsequent sample as compared to the amount and/or activity in the sample at the first point in time, indicates that the test agent increases the inflammatory phenotype of myeloid cells in the subject; or wherein the absence of, or a decrease in, the amount and/or activity of the at least one target listed in Table 1, and/or an increase in ii) in the subsequent sample as compared to the amount and/or activity in the sample at the first point in time, indicates that the test agent decreases the inflammatory phenotype of myeloid cells in the subject, optionally wherein the myeloid cells comprise suppressive myeloid cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and/or dendritic cells. 83. The method of claim 82, wherein the myeloid cells contacted with the agent are comprised within a population of cells and the agent a) increases the number of Type 1 and/or M1 macrophages, and/or decreases the number of Type 2 and/or M2 macrophages, in the population of cells. 84. The method of claim 82, wherein the myeloid cells contacted with the agent are comprised within a population of cells and the agent a) decreases the number of Type 1 and/or M1 macrophages; or b) increases the number of Type 2 and/or M2 macrophages, in the population of cells. 85. The method of any one of claims 82-84, wherein the myeloid cells are contacted in vitro or ex vivo. 86. The method of claim 85, wherein the myeloid cells are primary myeloid cells. 87. The method of claim 85 or 86, wherein the myeloid cells are purified and/or cultured prior to contact with the agent. 88. The method of any one of claims 82-87, wherein the myeloid cells are contacted in vivo. 89. The method of claim 88, wherein the myeloid cells are contacted in vivo by systemic, peritumoral, or intratumoral administration of the agent. 90. The method of claim 88 or 89, wherein the myeloid cells are contacted in a tissue microenvironment. 91. The method of any one of claims 82-90, further comprising contacting the myeloid cells with at least one immunotherapeutic agent that modulates the inflammatory phenotype, optionally wherein the immunotherapeutic agent comprises an immune checkpoint inhibitor, immune-stimulatory agonist, inflammatory agent, cells, a cancer vaccine, and/or a virus. 92. The method of any one of claims 82-91, wherein the subject is a mammal.
93. The method of claim 92, wherein the mammal is a non-human animal model or a human. 94. A method of assessing the efficacy of a test agent for treating a cancer or an immunological disorder in a subject, comprising:
a) detecting in a subject sample comprising myeloid cells at a first point in time i) the amount and/or or activity of at least one target listed in Table 1 in or on myeloid cells using an agent, wherein the agent is at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-12 and/or ii) an inflammatory phenotype of the myeloid cells;
b) repeating step a) during at least one subsequent point in time after administration of the agent; and
c) comparing the value of i) and/or ii) detected in steps a) and b), wherein the presence of, or an increase in, the amount and/or activity of the at least one target listed in Table 1, and/or an increase in ii) in or on the myeloid cells of the subject sample at the subsequent point in time as compared to the amount and/or activity in or on the myeloid cells of the subject sample at the first point in time, indicates that the test agent treats the cancer in the subject; or wherein the absence of, or a decrease in, the amount and/or activity of the at least one target listed in Table 1, and/or a decrease in ii) in or on the myeloid cells of the subject sample at the subsequent point in time as compared to the amount and/or activity in or on the myeloid cells of the subject sample at the first point in time, indicates that the test agent treats the immunological disorder in the subject, optionally wherein the myeloid cells comprise suppressive myeloid cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and/or dendritic cells. 95. The method of claim 94, wherein between the first point in time and the subsequent point in time, the subject has undergone treatment, completed treatment, and/or is in remission for the cancer or the immunological disorder. 96. The method of claim 94 or 95, wherein the first and/or at least one subsequent sample is selected from the group consisting of ex vivo and in vivo samples. 97. The method of any one of claims 94-96, wherein the first and/or at least one subsequent sample is obtained from a non-human animal model of the cancer.
98. The method of any one of claims 94-97, wherein the first and/or at least one subsequent sample is a portion of a single sample or pooled samples obtained from the subject. 99. The method of any one of claims 94-98, wherein the sample comprises cells, serum, peritumoral tissue, and/or intratumoral tissue obtained from the subject. 100. A method for screening for test agents that sensitize cancer cells to cytotoxic T cellmediated killing and/or immune checkpoint therapy comprising:
a) contacting cancer cells with cytotoxic T cells and/or immune checkpoint therapy in the presence of myeloid cells contacted with the test agent, wherein the test agent modulates the amount and/or activity of at least one target listed in Table 1 in or on myeloid cells agent as determined using an agent, wherein the agent is at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-12;
b) contacting cancer cells with cytotoxic T cells and/or immune checkpoint therapy in the presence of control myeloid cells that are not contacted with the test agent; and
c) identifying test agents that sensitize cancer cells to cytotoxic T cell-mediated killing and/or immune checkpoint therapy by identifying agents that increase cytotoxic T cell-mediated killing and/or immune checkpoint therapy efficacy in a) compared to b), optionally wherein the myeloid cells comprise suppressive myeloid cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and/or dendritic cells. 101. The method of claim 100, wherein the step of contacting occurs in vivo, ex vivo, or in vitro. 102. The method of claim 100 or 101, further comprising determining a reduction in i) the number of proliferating cells in the cancer and/or ii) a reduction in the volume or size of a tumor comprising the cancer cells. 103. The method of any one of claims 100-102, further comprising determining i) an increased number of CD8+ T cells and/or ii) an increased number of Type 1 and/or M1 macrophages infiltrating a tumor comprising the cancer cells. 104. The method of any one of claims 100-103, further comprising determining responsiveness to the test agent that modulates the at least one target listed in Table 1 measured by at least one criterion selected from the group consisting of clinical benefit rate, survival until mortality, pathological complete response, semi-quantitative measures of pathologic response, clinical complete remission, clinical partial remission, clinical stable disease, recurrence-free survival, metastasis free survival, disease free survival, circulating tumor cell decrease, circulating marker response, and RECIST criteria. 105. The method of any one of claims 100-104, further comprising contacting the cancer cells with at least one additional cancer therapeutic agent or regimen. 106. The composition or method of any one of claims 1-105, wherein the myeloid cells having a modulated inflammatory phenotype exhibit one or more of the following:
a) modulated expression of cluster of differentiation 80 (CD80), CD86, MHCII, MHCI, interleukin 1-beta (IL-1b), IL-6, CCL3, CCL4, CXCL10, CXCL9, GM-CSF and/or tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a);
b) modulated expression of CD206, CD163, CD16, CD53, VSIG4, PSGL-1 and/or IL-10;
c) modulated secretion of at least one cytokine selected from the group consisting of IL-1b, TNF-a, IL-12, IL-18, and IL-23;
d) modulated ratio of expression of IL-1b, IL-6, and/or TNF-a to expression of IL- 10;
e) modulated CD8+ cytotoxic T cell activation;
f) modulated CD4+ helper T cell activity;
g) modulated NK cell activity;
h) modulated neutrophil activity;
i) modulated macrophage and/or dendritic cell activity; and/or
j) modulated spindle-shaped morphology, flatness of appearance, and/or dendrite numbers, as assessed by microscopy. 107. The composition or method of any one of claims 1-106, wherein the cells and/or myeloid cells comprise Type 1 macrophages, M1 macrophages, Type 2 macrophages, M2 macrophages, M2c macrophages, M2d macrophages, tumor-associated macrophages (TAM), CD11b+ cells, CD14+ cells, and/or CD11b+/CD14+ cells, optionally wherein the cells and/or myeloid cells express or are determined to express CD53.
108. The composition or method of any one of claims 1-107, wherein the human CD53 polypeptide has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, or 10 and/or the cynomolgus CD53 polypeptide has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8 or 9. 109. The composition or method of any one of claims 1-108, wherein the cancer is a solid tumor that is infiltrated with macrophages, wherein the infiltrating macrophages represent at least about 5% of the mass, volume, and/or number of cells in the tumor or the tumor microenvironment, and/or wherein the cancer is selected from the group consisting of mesothelioma, kidney renal clear cell carcinoma, glioblastoma, lung adenocarcinoma, lung squamous cell carcinoma, pancreatic adenocarcinoma, breast invasive carcinoma, acute myeloid leukemia, adrenocortical carcinoma, bladder urothelial carcinoma, brain lower grade glioma, breast invasive carcinoma, cervical squamous cell carcinoma and endocervical adenocarcinoma, cholangiocarcinoma, colon adenocarcinoma, esophageal carcinoma, glioblastoma multiforme, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, kidney chromophobe, kidney renal clear cell carcinoma, kidney renal papillary cell carcinoma, liver hepatocellular carcinoma, lung adenocarcinoma, lung squamous cell carcinoma, lymphoid neoplasm diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, mesothelioma, ovarian serous, cystadenocarcinoma, pancreatic adenocarcinoma, pheochromocytoma, paraganglioma, prostate adenocarcinoma, rectum adenocarcinoma, sarcoma, skin cutaneous melanoma, stomach adenocarcinoma, testicular germ cell tumors, thymoma, thyroid carcinoma, uterine carcinosarcoma, uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma, and uveal melanoma. 110. The composition or method of any one of claims 1-108, wherein the site of the immunological disorder is infiltrated with macrophages, wherein the infiltrating macrophages represent at least about 5% of the mass, volume, and/or number of cells in the site of the immunological disorder, and/or the immunological disorder is an inflammation disease, immunological intolerance condition, or autoimmune disease, optionally wherein the immunological disorder is selected from the group consisting achlorhydria, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), Addison disease, adrenalitis, agammaglobulinemia, allergic alveolitis, allergic contact dermatitis, allergic encephalomyelitis, allergic reaction, allergy, alopecia arcata, Alport's syndrome, alveolitis, amyloidosis, anaphylaxis, anemia perniciosa, ankylosing spondylitis, anti-GBM/anti-TBM nephritis, anti-phospholipid syndrome, arthritis, asthma, atopic allergy, atopic dermatitis, atopic rhinitis, autoimmune atrophic gastritis, autoimmune demyelinative diseases, autoimmune gonadal failure, autoimmune hemolytic anemia, autoimmune hepatitis, autoimmune hypothyroidism, autoimmune infertility, autoimmune inner ear disease, autoimmune thrombocytopenia, autoimmune thrombopenic purpura, autoimmune uveitis, Behcet disease, bird-fancier's lung, Caplan's syndrome, cardiomyopathy, Castleman disease, celiac disease, Chagas' disease, chronic heptatitis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis, chronic rheumatoid arthritis, Cogan's syndrome, cold agglutinin disease, calcinosis-Raynaud's phenomenon-esophageal dysmotility-sclerodactyltelangiectasia (CREST) syndrome, Crohn's disease, Cushing's syndrome, cyclitis, delayed type hypersensitivity, dermatitis herpetiformis, dermatomyositis, Devic's disease
(neuromyelitis optica), dilated cardiomyopathy-like disease, discoid lupus, Dressler's syndrome, Eaton-Lambert syndrome, eczema, encephalomyelitis, endocarditis, endocrine opthalmopathy, endometriosis, endomyocardial fibrosis, endophthalmitis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, erythematosus, eosinophilic esophagitis, eosinophilic fasciitis, erythema elevatum et diutinum, erythroblastosis fetalis, Evan's syndrome, farmer's lung, Felty's syndrome, fibromyalgia, fibrosing alveolitis, gastric atrophy, giant cell arteritis, giant cell myocarditis, glomerulonephritis, Goodpasture's syndrome, graft-versushost disease (GVHD), granulomatosis with polyangitis, Graves' disease, Guillain-Barre syndrome, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, hemolytic anemia, Henoch-Schonlein purpura, hypogammaglobulinemia, hypoparathyroidism, hypoproliferative anemia, idiopathic adrenal atrophy, idiopathic thrombocytopenia, IgA nephropathy, inclusion body myositis, inflammatory myositis, inflammatory bowel disease, interstitial cystitis, interstitial lung disease, juvenile arthritis, juvenile/type 1 diabetes, juvenile myositis, Kawasaki's syndrome, Lambert-Eaton syndrome, lichen planus, lichen sclerosus, lupoid hepatitis, lupus, Meniere's disease, mixed connective tissue disease, multiple endocrine failure, multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, microscopic polyangiitis, Omenn's syndrome, optic neuritis, osteoporosis, pachyderma, pemphigoid, pemphigus, pemphigus vulgaris, periarteritis nodosa, pernicious anemia, phacogenic uveitis, polyarteritis nodosa, polyglandular autosyndrome, polymyalgia rheumatica, polymyositis, post-cardiotomy syndrome, primary biliary cirrhosis, primary sclerosing cholangitis, progressive systemic sclerosis, psoriasis, primary biliary cirrhosis, psoriatic arthritis, pulmonary inflammation, pyoderma gangernosum, Raynaud's syndrome, Reiter syndrome, relapsing polychondritis, rheumatic fever, rheumatoid arthritis, rhinitis, Sampter's syndrome, sarcoidosis, Schmidt's syndrome, Shulman's syndrome, scleroderma, Sjogren's syndrome, sterility disease, subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus, sympathetic ophthalmia, systemic erythematodes, systemic lupus erythematosus, systemic necrotizing vasculitis, systemic sclerosis,
Takayasu's arteritis, temporal arteritis, thyroiditis, thyrotoxicosis, toxic epidermal necrolysis, transfusion reaction, transplant rejection, transverse myelitis, ulcerative colitis, uveitis, uveoretinitis, vasculitis, viral-induced lung inflammation, vitiligo, viral myocarditis, and Wegener's granulomatosis. 111. The composition or method of claim 109 or 110, wherein the myeloid cells comprise Type 1 macrophages, M1 macrophages, Type 2 macrophages, M2 macrophages, M2c macrophages, M2d macrophages, tumor-associated macrophages (TAM), CD11b+ cells, CD14+ cells, and/or CD11b+/CD14+ cells, optionally wherein the myeloid cells are TAMs and/or M1 macrophages. 112. The composition or method of any one of claims 109-111, wherein the myeloid cells express or are determined to express CD53. 113. The composition or method of any one of claims 1-112, wherein the myeloid cells are primary myeloid cells. 114. The composition or method of any one of claims 1-113, wherein the myeloid cells are comprised within a tissue microenvironment. 115. The composition or method of any one of claims 1-114, wherein the myeloid cells are comprised within a human tumor model or an animal model of cancer. 116. The composition or method of any one of claims 1-115, wherein the subject is a mammal. 117. The composition or method of claim 116, wherein the mammal is a human. 118. The composition or method of claim 117, wherein the human is afflicted with a cancer or an immunological disorder.
</claims>
</document>
