<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H20/17,G16H50/20,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDTRONIC MINIMED
</assignee>

<inventors>
AGRAWAL, PRATIK
ZHONG, YUXIANG
JIANG, BOYI
NEEMUCHWALA, HUZEFA F.
MCMAHON, CHANTAL M.
ABRAHAM, SINU BESSY
ARUNACHALAM, SIDDHARTH
VELADO, KEVIN E.
RASTOGI, SHRUTI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63858091
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PATIENT MONITORING SYSTEMS AND RELATED RECOMMENDATION METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
Infusion devices and related medical devices, patient data management systems, and methods are provided for monitoring a physiological condition of a patient. A method of managing a physiological condition of a patient using infusion of a fluid to influence the physiological condition of the patient involves obtaining a cost function representative of a desired performance for a bolus of the fluid to be delivered, obtaining a value for the physiological condition of the patient at a time corresponding to the bolus, determining a prediction for the physiological condition of the patient after the time corresponding to the bolus based at least in part on the value for the physiological condition using a prediction model, identifying a recommended amount of fluid to be associated with the bolus input to the prediction model that minimizes a cost associated with the prediction using the cost function, and providing indication of the recommended amount of fluid for the bolus.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method of managing a physiological condition of a patient using infusion of a fluid to influence the physiological condition of the patient, the method comprising:
obtaining a cost function representative of a desired performance for a bolus of the fluid to be delivered;
obtaining a value for the physiological condition of the patient at a time corresponding to the bolus;
determining a prediction for the physiological condition of the patient after the time corresponding to the bolus based at least in part on the value for the physiological condition using a prediction model;
identifying a recommended amount of fluid to be associated with the bolus input to the prediction model that minimizes a cost associated with the prediction using the cost function; and
providing indication of the recommended amount of fluid for the bolus.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein:
determining the prediction comprises determining a plurality of predictions for the physiological condition of the patient after the time corresponding to the bolus based at least in part on the value for the physiological condition using the prediction model, wherein each prediction of the plurality of predictions is associated with a different bolus amount of the fluid input to the prediction model; and
identifying the recommended amount comprises:
determining, for each of the plurality of predictions, a respective cost associated with the respective prediction as a function of the respective prediction and the cost function, resulting in a plurality of potential costs; and
identifying the recommended amount as a respective bolus amount of the fluid input to the prediction model for the respective prediction of the plurality of predictions having a minimum cost of the plurality of potential costs.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising obtaining a target value for the physiological condition of the patient, wherein determining the respective cost associated with the respective prediction comprises determining the respective cost as a function of deviations between the respective prediction and the target value.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the cost function non-uniformly increases with respect to time.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the cost function non-uniformly decreases with respect to time.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising obtaining a target value for the physiological condition of the patient, wherein identifying the recommended amount of fluid comprises identifying the recommended amount of fluid to be associated with the bolus input to the prediction model that minimizes a cost associated with deviations between the prediction and the target value using the cost function.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein:
the fluid comprises insulin;
the target value comprises a target glucose value;
obtaining the value for the physiological condition comprises obtaining a current glucose measurement value for the patient;
determining the prediction comprises calculating a plurality of predicted glucose values for the patient based at least in part on the current glucose measurement value using a glucose prediction model; and
identifying the recommended amount of fluid comprises identifying the recommended amount of insulin input to the glucose prediction model that minimizes a cost associated with deviations between the plurality of predicted glucose values and the target value using the cost function.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the target glucose value comprises a previouslyforecasted glucose value for a future time.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein identifying the recommended amount of fluid comprises optimizing the bolus input to the prediction model to minimize a product of an area between the prediction and the target value and the cost function.
10. The method of claim 6, wherein:
the fluid comprises insulin;
the target value comprises a target glucose value;
obtaining the value for the physiological condition comprises obtaining a forecasted glucose value for the patient at the time in the future;
determining the prediction comprises calculating a plurality of predicted glucose values for the patient based at least in part on the forecasted glucose measurement value; and
identifying the recommended amount of fluid comprises identifying the recommended amount of insulin input to a glucose prediction model that minimizes a cost associated with deviations between the plurality of predicted glucose values and the target value using the cost function.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting instructions to an infusion device to deliver the recommended amount of the fluid.
12. A computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon that are executable by a processing system to perform the method of claim 1.
13. A method managing a glucose level of a patient, the method comprising: obtaining, at a client device, glucose measurement data from a glucose sensing arrangement;
identifying a target glucose value for the patient;
obtaining a cost function representative of a desired bolus performance;
optimizing a bolus amount input variable to a glucose prediction model based on deviations between the target glucose value and a prediction for the glucose level of the patient output by the glucose prediction model based at least in part on the glucose measurement data and the bolus amount input variable using the cost function to identify an optimal value for the bolus amount input variable that minimizes a total cost associated with the prediction for the glucose level of the patient; and
displaying, at the client device, a recommended bolus amount of insulin corresponding to the optimal value.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising transmitting, by the client device, instructions to deliver the recommended bolus amount of insulin to an infusion device associated with the patient, wherein an actuation arrangement of the infusion device is operated to deliver the recommended bolus amount of insulin.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein identifying the target glucose value comprises the client device identifying the target glucose value utilized by a closed-loop control system of the infusion device.
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising obtaining, by the client device from a remote device via a network, a patient-specific glucose prediction model associated with the patient, wherein the glucose prediction model comprises the patient-specific glucose prediction model.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein optimizing the bolus amount input variable comprises:
determining a plurality of predictions for the glucose level of the patient based at least in part on the glucose measurement data using the glucose prediction model, wherein each prediction of the plurality of predictions is associated with a different value for the bolus amount input variable;
determining, for each of the plurality of predictions, a respective cost associated with the respective prediction as a function of the cost function and a difference between the respective prediction and the target glucose value, resulting in a plurality of potential costs; and identifying the optimal value for the bolus amount input variable associated with the respective prediction of the plurality of predictions having a minimum cost of the plurality of potential costs.
18. The method of claim 13, further comprising:
obtaining environmental data associated with the patient; and
adjusting the cost function based on the environmental data prior to optimizing the bolus amount input variable.
19. The method of claim 13, further comprising:
obtaining a second glucose prediction model for the patient; obtaining a target glucose outcome for the patient; and
identifying a recommendation range of values for a bolus amount input to the second glucose prediction model that result in an output of the second glucose prediction model achieving the target glucose outcome based on the glucose measurement data, wherein optimizing the bolus amount input variable comprises identifying the optimal value for the bolus amount input variable from within the recommendation range of values.
20. A patient monitoring system comprising:
a sensing arrangement to provide measurement data for a physiological condition of a patient;
an actuation arrangement operable to deliver a fluid capable of influencing the physiological condition to the patient;
a data storage element to maintain a cost function representative of a desired bolus performance and a model for predicting the physiological condition of the patient; and a control system coupled to the sensing arrangement, the actuation arrangement and the data storage element to obtain the measurement data, determine a prediction for the physiological condition of the patient based at least in part on the measurement data and a bolus amount input variable using a prediction model, and identify an optimal amount for the bolus amount input variable that minimizes a cost associated with the prediction using the cost function, wherein the actuation arrangement is operated to deliver the optimal amount of the fluid.
</claims>
</document>
