<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B7/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAHR, CHRISTIAN
MIHAILESCU, CLAUDIU
FEKI, AFEF
CAPDEVIELLE, VÉRONIQUE
KOUASSI, BORIS
BELHAJ SALAH, AMINE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65011994
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SELECTING BEAMFORMING OPTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A method, apparatus and computer program is described, comprising: collecting performance information, at a current iteration, of a current beamforming option at a node of a mobile communication system; updating a decision function for each of a plurality of beamforming options for the node of the mobile communication system, wherein updating the decision function uses the collected performance information of the current beamforming option at the current iteration; and selecting one of said beamforming options and operating the node of the communication system at a next iteration accordingly, wherein the selected beamforming option maximises the decision function. The method may make use of machine-learning principles.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising:
means for collecting performance information, at a current iteration, of a current beamforming option at a node of a mobile communication system;
means for updating a decision function for each of a plurality of beamforming options for the node of the mobile communication system, said means for updating the decision function using the collected performance information of the current beamforming option at the current iteration; and
means for selecting one of said beamforming options and operating the node of the communication system at a next iteration accordingly, wherein the selected beamforming option maximises the decision function.
2. An apparatus as claimed in claim l, further comprising means for repeating said selecting of one of said beamforming options at a plurality of next iterations.
3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, further comprising means for adjusting a period of repeating said selecting of one of said beamforming options at the plurality of next iterations.
4. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said means for collecting performance information collects information from user devices in mobile communication with said node of said mobile communication system. 5. An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the means for selecting said one of said beamforming options is conducted at said node of said communication system independently of other nodes in said communication system.
6. An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said node is a base station of said mobile communication system.
7. An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said means for updating the decision function uses performance information of previous iterations for the current beamforming option and other beamforming options of the plurality. 8. An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the decision function for each of the plurality of beamforming options comprises a combination of a first variable and a second variable for the respective beamforming option.
9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein the first variable comprises a mean reward function for the respective beamforming option. to. An apparatus as claimed in claim 8 or claim 9, wherein the second variable comprises a usage variable relating to recent usage of the respective beamforming option, wherein the decision function is biased towards selecting beamforming options with low recent usage rates.
11. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein the second variable comprises a tuning variable, wherein the tuning variable sets the relative important of the first and second variables in the outcome of the decision function.
12. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 11, wherein the decision function is defined such that a regret function due to exploration is upper bounded.
13. An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said means for updating the decision function implements a machine-learning algorithm.
14. An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the means comprise:
at least one processor; and
at least one memory including computer program code, the at least one memory and the computer program configured, with the at least one processor, to cause the performance of the apparatus.
15. A method comprising:
collecting performance information, at a current iteration, of a current beamforming option at a node of a mobile communication system;
updating a decision function for each of a plurality of beamforming options for the node of the mobile communication system, wherein updating the decision function uses the collected performance information of the current beamforming option at the current iteration; and
selecting one of said beamforming options and operating the node of the communication system at a next iteration accordingly, wherein the selected
beamforming option maximises the decision function.
16. A method as claimed in claim 15, further comprising repeating said selecting of one of said beamforming options at a plurality of next iterations. 17. An apparatus as claimed in claim 15 or claim 16, wherein updating the decision function uses performance information of previous iterations for the current beamforming option and other beamforming options of the plurality.
18. A method as claimed in any one of claims 15 to 17, wherein the decision function for each of the plurality of beamforming options comprises a combination of a first variable and a second variable for the respective beamforming option.
19. A method as claimed in any one of claims 15 to 18, wherein updating said decision function implements a machine-learning algorithm.
20. A computer readable medium comprising program instructions stored thereon for performing at least the following:
collecting performance information, at a current iteration, of a current beamforming option at a node of a mobile communication system;
updating a decision function for each of a plurality of beamforming options for the node of the mobile communication system, wherein updating the decision function uses the collected performance information of the current beamforming option at the current iteration; and
selecting one of said beamforming options and operating the node of the communication system at a next iteration accordingly, wherein the selected
beamforming option maximises the decision function.
</claims>
</document>
