<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W40/02,B60W40/08,B60W50/00,B60W60/00,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
CHEN LI
AERRABOTU, NAVEEN
WOUHAYBI, RITA H.
MOUSTAFA, HASSNAA
IYER, DARSHAN
TATOURIAN, IGOR
KAVULYA, SOILA P.
CHATTOPADHYAY, RITA
ALVAREZ, IGNACIO J.
ADENWALA, FATEMA S.
MARTINEZ-CANALES, MONICA LUCIA
JABER, SUHEL
SANKARAN KUTTY, JITHIN SANKAR
AGRAWAL, Pragya
LOPEZ-ARAIZA, Christopher E.
KHODAM HAZRATI, Mehrnaz
SRIPATHI, Karthik Reddy
VAN BEEK, Petrus J.
GALAN-OLIVERAS, Magdiel F.
ZAGE, David J.
ELLI, Maria S.
ROBB, Patricia Ann
TANRIOVER, Cagri C.
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN LI
AERRABOTU, NAVEEN
WOUHAYBI, RITA H.
MOUSTAFA, HASSNAA
IYER, DARSHAN
TATOURIAN, IGOR
KAVULYA, SOILA P.
CHATTOPADHYAY, RITA
ALVAREZ, IGNACIO J.
ADENWALA, FATEMA S.
MARTINEZ-CANALES, MONICA LUCIA
JABER, SUHEL
SANKARAN KUTTY, JITHIN SANKAR
AGRAWAL, Pragya
LOPEZ-ARAIZA, Christopher E.
KHODAM HAZRATI, Mehrnaz
SRIPATHI, Karthik Reddy
VAN BEEK, Petrus J.
GALAN-OLIVERAS, Magdiel F.
ZAGE, David J.
ELLI, Maria S.
ROBB, Patricia Ann
TANRIOVER, Cagri C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72666352
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus comprising at least one interface to receive sensor data from a plurality of sensors of a vehicle; and one or more processors to autonomously control driving of the vehicle according to a path plan based on the sensor data; determine that autonomous control of the vehicle should cease; send a handoff request to a remote computing system for the remote computing system to control driving of the vehicle remotely; receive driving instruction data from the remote computing system; and control driving of the vehicle based on instructions included in the driving instruction data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising:
at least one interface to receive sensor data from a plurality of sensors of a vehicle; and one or more processors to:
autonomously control driving of the vehicle according to a path plan based on the sensor data;
determine that autonomous control of the vehicle should cease; send a handoff request to a remote computing system for the remote computing system to control driving of the vehicle remotely;
receive driving instruction data from the remote computing system; and control driving of the vehicle based on instructions included in the driving instruction data.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the driving instruction data is generated from inputs of a human user at the remote computing system.
3. The apparatus of Claim 1, the one or more processors to detect a pull-over event, wherein the vehicle is to pull-over and cease driving in association with the pull-over event, wherein the handoff request is sent in response to the pull-over event.
4. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein determining that autonomous control of the vehicle should cease comprises predicting, using a particular machine learning model, that conditions on an upcoming section of the path plan presents difficulties to autonomous driving for the upcoming section.
5. The apparatus of Claim 1, the one or more processors to determine that autonomous control of the vehicle should cease based on detection of one or more compromised sensors of the vehicle.
6. The apparatus of Claim 1, the one or more processors to determine that no qualified passengers are present within the vehicle, wherein the handoff request is sent based at least in part on determining that no qualified passengers are present.
7. The apparatus of Claim 1, the one or more processors to send the sensor data to the remote computing system to present a dynamic representation of surroundings of the vehicle to a human user of the remote computing system.
8. The apparatus of Claim 7, wherein the sensor data comprises video data.
9. The apparatus of Claim 1, the one or more processors to communicate an alert to passengers of the vehicle to identify that control of the vehicle is handed over to the remote valet service.
10. The apparatus of Claim 1, the one or more processors to:
detect a change in conditions along the path plan; and
restore control of the driving of the vehicle from the remote computing system to autonomous driving logic of the vehicle.
11. A com puter-readable medium to store instructions, wherein the instructions, when executed by a machine, cause the machine to perform:
autonomously controlling driving of a vehicle according to a path plan based on sensor data generated from a set of sensors of a vehicle;
determining that autonomous control of the vehicle should cease;
sending a handoff request to a remote computing system for the remote computing system to control driving of the vehicle remotely;
receiving driving instruction data from the remote computing system; and
controlling driving of the vehicle based on instructions included in the driving instruction data.
12. The medium of Claim 11, wherein the driving instruction data is generated from inputs of a human user at the remote computing system.
13. The medium of Claim 11, the instructions, when executed by a machine, cause the machine to perform: detecting a pull-over event, wherein the vehicle is to pull-over and cease driving in association with the pull-over event, wherein the handoff request is sent in response to the pull-over event.
14. The medium of Claim 11, wherein determining that autonomous control of the vehicle should cease comprises predicting, using a particular machine learning model, that conditions on an upcoming section of the path plan presents difficulties to autonomous driving for the upcoming section.
15. The medium of Claim 11, wherein it is determined that autonomous control of the vehicle should cease based on detection of one or more compromised sensors on the vehicle.
16. The medium of Claim 11, the instructions, when executed by a machine, cause the machine to perform: determining that no qualified passengers are present within the vehicle, wherein the handoff request is sent based at least in part on determining that no qualified passengers are present.
17. The medium of Claim 11, the instructions, when executed by a machine, cause the machine to perform: sending the sensor data to the remote computing system to present a dynamic representation of surroundings of the vehicle to a human user of the remote computing system.
18. The medium of Claim 17, wherein the sensor data comprises video data.
19. The medium of Claim 11, the instructions, when executed by a machine, cause the machine to perform: presenting an alert to passengers of the vehicle to identify that control of the vehicle is handed over to the remote valet service.
20. The medium of Claim 11, the instructions, when executed by a machine, cause the machine to perform: detecting a change in conditions along the path plan; and
restoring control of the driving of the vehicle from the remote computing system to autonomous driving logic of the vehicle.
21. A system comprising:
means to autonomously control driving of a vehicle according to a path plan based on sensor data generated from a set of sensors of a vehicle;
means to determine that autonomous control of the vehicle should cease;
means to send a handoff request to a remote computing system for the remote computing system to control driving of the vehicle remotely;
means to receive driving instruction data from the remote computing system; and means to control driving of the vehicle based on instructions included in the driving instruction data.
22. The system of Claim 21, wherein the driving instruction data is generated from inputs of a human user at the remote computing system.
23. The system of Claim 21, further comprising means to detect a pull-over event, wherein the vehicle is to pull-over and cease driving in association with the pull-over event, wherein the handoff request is sent in response to the pull-over event.
24. The system of Claim 21, wherein determining that autonomous control of the vehicle should cease comprises predicting, using a particular machine learning model, that conditions on an upcoming section of the path plan presents difficulties to autonomous driving for the upcoming section.
25. A vehicle comprising:
a plurality of sensors to generate sensor data;
a control system to physically control movement of the vehicle; and
processing circuitry to:
autonomously control driving of a vehicle according to a path plan based on the sensor data by communicating with the control system; determine that autonomous control of the vehicle should cease;
send a handoff request to a remote computing system for the remote computing system to control driving of the vehicle remotely;
receive driving instruction data from the remote computing system; and control driving of the vehicle based on instructions included in the driving instruction data by communicating with the control system.
26. A method, comprising:
determining at least one handoff location of an autonomous vehicle to a driver on a route;
receiving information pertaining to characteristics of a driver;
receiving information pertaining to a current state of attention of the driver; and determining the expected driver behavior during each of the at least one handoff locations.
27. A method comprising:
generating a first set of one or more control signals in response to human input to a vehicle;
in response to determining that the first set of one or more control signals would cause an unacceptable acceleration:
identifying an acceptable acceleration;
converting the acceptable acceleration to a second set of one or more control signals; and
providing the second set of one or more control signals to a vehicle actuation system in place of the first set of one or more control signals.
28. A method comprising:
operating, by a controller of an autonomous vehicle, the autonomous vehicle in an autonomous driving mode;
receiving a request to take over control of the autonomous vehicle by an entity other than the controller; prompting the requesting entity for credentials in response to receiving the request to take over control of the autonomous vehicle;
receiving input in response to the prompt; and
allowing the request to take over control of the autonomous vehicle in response to authenticating the requesting entity based on the received input.
29. A method comprising:
operating, by a control system of an autonomous vehicle, the autonomous vehicle in an autonomous mode of operation based on sensor data obtained from a plurality of sensors coupled to the autonomous vehicle;
detecting, by the control system of the autonomous vehicle, a takeover request by a passenger of the autonomous vehicle;
determining, by the control system of the autonomous vehicle based on the sensor data, whether the requested takeover is safe; and
blocking the requested takeover in response to a determination that the requested takeover is unsafe.
30. A method, comprising:
determining a system failure of an autonomous vehicle;
determining that an autonomous level of the autonomous vehicle can be reduced to a first level that does not require a driver takeover;
alerting the driver that the autonomy level is going to be reduced to the first level; and reducing the autonomy level to the first level.
</claims>
</document>
