<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
AYLOO, KALYAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71069943
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POPULATING ELECTRONIC MESSAGES WITH QUOTES
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for populating a response electronic message with one or more quotes are disclosed, where the quote(s) are obtained from a received electronic message. In one example, a quote is automatically detected in the received electronic message and inserted into the response electronic message as a suggested quote. Additionally or alternatively, a character input that indicates an intent to insert a quote into the response electronic message is received. A text input is then received, where the text input includes at least a portion of the text in the received electronic communication that constitutes the quote. Based on the text input, the quote in the received electronic message is determined and the response electronic communication is populated with the quote.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of populating a response electronic message with a quote from a received electronic message, the method comprising:
receiving an indication to send the response electronic message to the received electronic message;
automatically detecting quotable text in the received electronic message;
populating the response electronic message with the quotable text, the quotable text presented as a suggested quote; and
based on a received input associated with the suggested quote, determining whether to finalize or remove the suggested quote in the response electronic message.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein:
the received input is an acceptance input; and
the method further comprises determining to finalize the suggested quote in the response electronic message.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the quote finalized in the response electronic message is presented in a first visual state and remaining text in the response electronic message is presented in a different second visual state.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the suggested quote is presented in a first visual state and the quote finalized in the response electronic message is presented in a different second visual state.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein:
the received input is a rejection input; and
the method further comprises determining to remove the suggested quote from the response electronic message.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein automatically detecting the quotable text in the received electronic message comprises automatically detecting, using a machine learning algorithm, a question or a name of a subject in the received electronic message.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein automatically detecting the quotable text in the received electronic message comprises automatically detecting, using a machine learning algorithm, a request or a commitment in the received electronic message.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein automatically detecting the quotable text in the received electronic message comprises automatically detecting, using a machine learning algorithm, a celebratory statement or an inspirational statement in the received electronic message.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, the method further comprising:
receiving a character input and a text input associated with an inserted quote, the character input indicating an intent to populate the response electronic message with the inserted quote obtained from the received electronic message and the text input providing at least a portion of content in the inserted quote;
based at least on the text input, determining the inserted quote in the received electronic message that corresponds to the text input;
populating the response electronic message with the inserted quote.
10. A system, comprising:
a processing device; and
a memory operably connected to the processing device and storing instructions, that when executed by the processing device, cause the system to perform operations comprising:
receiving an indication to send a response electronic message to a received electronic message;
automatically detecting, using a machine learning algorithm, quotable text in the received electronic message;
populating the response electronic message with the quotable text, the quotable text presented as a suggested quote; and
based on a received input associated with the suggested quote, determining whether to finalize or remove the suggested quote in the response electronic message.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the memory stores further instructions for:
determining to remove the suggested quote from the response electronic message when the received input is a rejection input; and
determining to finalize the suggested quote in the response electronic message when the received input is an acceptance input.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the memory stores further instructions for including the suggested quote and the received acceptance input or the received rejection input to training data for the machine learning algorithm.
13. A computer-implemented method, comprising:
receiving an indication to send a response electronic message to a received electronic message;
in response to receiving the indication: automatically detecting, using at least a machine learning algorithm, quotable text in the received electronic message;
populating the response electronic message with the quotable text, the quotable text presented as a suggested quote;
based on receiving a character input indicating an intent to populate the response electronic message with an inserted quote:
removing the suggested quote from the response electronic message;
receiving a text input that provides at least a portion of text in the received electronic message that comprises the inserted quote;
automatically determining the inserted quote in the received electronic message that corresponds to the text input; and
populating the response electronic message with the inserted quote.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein automatically detecting, using the machine learning algorithm, the quotable text in the received electronic message comprises automatically detecting, using the machine learning algorithm, at least one of: a question in the received electronic message;
a request in the received electronic message;
a commitment in the received electronic message;
a name of a subject in the received electronic message;
a celebratory statement in the received electronic message; or
an inspirational statement in the received electronic message.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein automatically detecting, using the at least the machine learning algorithm, quotable text in the received electronic message comprises automatically detecting, using the at least the machine learning algorithm and a rule-based machine learning algorithm, quotable text in the received electronic message, the rule-based machine learning detecting at least one of a keyword, grammar, or a punctuation mark.
</claims>
</document>
