<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B05D5/00,B24B1/00,B24B19/26,B24B21/00,B24B27/00,B24B27/033,B24B27/04,B24B29/00,B24B49/12,B24B49/16,B24B51/00,B62D65/00,G01N21/88,G01N21/95,G05B19/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
3M INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY (MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HEMES, BRETT R.
MULLINS, SARAH M.
MUNOZ JUAN A.
ORLANDO, MARK W.
PURDIN, MATTHEW H.
RICHARDSON, NICHOLAS D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68109399
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PAINT REPAIR PROCESS BY SCENARIO
</title>

<abstract>
A method and associated system provides automated abrasive paint repair using automated abrasive paint repair devices that selectively sand, buff, and polish a substrate in response to received instructions generated by a controller. The controller receives coordinates of each identified defect in the substrate along with parameters describing characteristics of each defect, selects a sanding process, a buffing process, and/or a polishing process based on empirically derived rules established by skilled/expert human operators and the received parameters. The controller outputs instructions to cause the automated abrasive paint repair devices to execute the selected sanding process, buffing process, and/or polishing process using the received parameters. The empirically derived rules and parameters may be stored in a lookup table and/or updated by a machine learning module.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method of providing automated abrasive paint repair, comprising: receiving, by one or more processors, coordinates of each identified defect in a substrate along with parameters describing characteristics of each defect;
selecting, by the one or more processors, at least one of a sanding process, a buffing process, and a polishing process based on empirically derived rules established by skilled/expert human operators and the received parameters; and
instructing, by the one or more processors, automated abrasive paint repair devices to execute the selected at least one sanding process, buffing process, and polishing process using the received parameters.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the empirically derived rules and parameters are stored in a lookup table.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein parameters are selected from the lookup table in the selecting step using a parameter selection algorithm that implements empirically engineered parametric functions of the received parameters.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising updating the empirically derived rules using a machine learning module that runs learning updates to improve future automated abrasive paint repair actions based on a particular identified defect and subsequent evaluation of an executed repair.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the selecting step uses a parameter selection algorithm that implements at least one of decision trees, known k-nearest neighbor methods, and machine learning techniques to select the parameters based on a previously executed repair.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the received parameters include at least one of a defect type from a classifier, approximate volumetric information describing the defect, and substrate material information.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the received parameters include process parameters including at least one of dwell time and force profile.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the received parameters are measured using an automated digital robotic inspection device including at least one camera.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein instructing the automated abrasive paint repair devices comprises instructing the automated abrasive paint repair devices to perform an abrasive step using a selected sanding process using abrasive process parameters followed by at least one
buffing/polishing step using a selected at least one buffing process and polishing process using buffing/polishing parameters, wherein the buffmg/polishing parameters are selected based on a previously executed repair strategy.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein instructing the automated abrasive paint repair devices comprises providing outputs including at least one of an abrasive type, an abrasive grade, RPMs to use by a sanding tool, orbit to use by a sanding tool, a polishing compound, RPMs to use by a buffing/polishing tool, and orbit to use by the buffmg/polishing tool.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein instructing the automated abrasive paint repair devices comprises providing outputs including at least one of set points for RPM of a sanding tool, a control input for a compliant force flange, a trajectory of a robot manipulator, and total processing time.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the trajectory of the robot manipulator is communicated by the one or more processors to the robot manipulator as time-varying positional offsets from an origin of the defect being repaired.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving characteristics of each defect comprises receiving locally collected in-si tu inspection data from end effector sensors.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising providing, by the one or more processors, the in-situ data to a machine learning unit for creating learning updates using at least one of fringe pattern projection, deflectometry, and intensity measurements of diffuse reflected or normal white light using a camera.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the sanding process and the polishing process comprise continuous parametric functions for continuous parameters.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting, by the one or more processors, at least one abrasive medium and buffing and polishing pad based upon an image of the substrate and the received parameters.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein selecting the at least one abrasive medium and buffing and polishing pad comprises using machine learning techniques to select the at least one abrasive medium and buffing and polishing pad based on a previously executed repair.
18. The method of claim 1, further comprising monitoring, by the one or more processors, usage of abrasive media and buffing and polishing pads to signal when change of abrasive media or buffing and polishing pads is recommended;
19. An automated abrasive paint repair system, comprising:
at least one automated abrasive paint repair device that selectively performs at least one of sanding, buffing, and polishing a substrate in response to received instructions; and
a controller having one or more processors that execute instructions to implement the steps of:
receiving coordinates of each identified defect in the substrate along with parameters describing characteristics of each defect;
selecting at least one of a sanding process, a buffing process, and a polishing process based on empirically derived rules established by skilled/expert human operators and the received parameters; and
providing the instructions to the at least one automated abrasive paint repair device to execute the selected at least one sanding process, buffing process, and polishing process using the received parameters.
20. The system of claim 19, further comprising a lookup table that stores the empirically derived rules and parameters.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the controller further implements a parameter selection algorithm that selects parameters from the lookup table according to empirically engineered parametric functions of the received parameters.
22. The system of claim 19, further comprising a machine learning module that updates the empirically derived rules by running learning updates to improve future automated abrasive paint repair actions based on a particular identified defect and subsequent evaluation of an executed repair.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the machine learning module uses a parameter selection algorithm that implements at least one of decision trees, known k-nearest neighbor methods, and machine learning techniques to select the parameters based on a previously executed repair.
24. The system of claim 19, wherein the received parameters include at least one of a defect type from a classifier, approximate volumetric information describing the defect, and substrate material information.
25. The system of claim 19, wherein the received parameters include process parameters including at least one of dwell time and force profile.
26. The system of claim 19, further comprising an automated digital robotic inspection device including at least one camera that provides the parameters to the controller.
27. The system of claim 19, wherein the controller instructs the at least one automated abrasive paint repair device to perform an abrasive step using a selected sanding process using abrasive process parameters followed by at least one buffing/polishing step using a selected at least one buffing process and polishing process using buffing/polishing parameters, wherein the
buffing/polishing parameters are selected based on a previously executed repair strategy.
28. The system of claim 19, wherein the controller provides outputs to the at least one automated abrasive paint repair device including at least one of an abrasive type, an abrasive grade, RPMs to use by a sanding tool, orbit to use by a sanding tool, a polishing compound, RPMs to use by a buffing/polishing tool, and orbit to use by the buffing/polishing tool.
29. The system of claim 19, wherein the controller provides outputs to the at least one automated abrasive paint repair device including at least one of set points for RPM of a sanding tool, a control input for a compliant force flange, a trajectory of a robot manipulator, and total processing time.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein the controller communicates the trajectory of the robot manipulator to the robot manipulator as time-varying positional offsets from an origin of the defect being repaired.
31. The system of claim 19, further comprising end effector sensors that provide locally collected in-situ inspection data to the controller as the parameters describing characteristics of each defect.
32. The system of claim 31, further comprising a machine learning unit that creates learning updates using at least one of fringe pattern projection, deflectometry, and intensity measurements of diffuse reflected or normal white light received in the in-situ inspection data.
33. The system of claim 19, wherein the at least one automated abrasive paint repair device implements at least one of a sanding process and a polishing process including continuous parametric functions for continuous parameters.
34. The system of claim 19, further comprising an imaging device that generates an image of the substrate, wherein the controller further executes instructions to implement the step of selecting at least one abrasive medium and buffing and polishing pad based upon the image of the substrate and the received parameters.
35. The system of claim 34, wherein the controller uses machine learning techniques to select the at least one abrasive medium and buffing and polishing pad based on a previously executed repair. 36. The system of claim 19, wherein the controller further monitors usage of abrasive media and buffing and polishing pads to signal when change of abrasive media or buffing and polishing pads is recommended.
</claims>
</document>
