<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INSURANCE SERVICES OFFICE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SINGH, MANEESH KUMAR
ADULYASAK, Yossiri
YARKONY, Julian
DESAULNIERS, Guy
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73047452
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER VISION SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MACHINE LEARNING USING A SET PACKING FRAMEWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Computer vision systems and methods for machine learning using a set packing framework are provided, A minimum weight set packing ('MWSP') framework is parameterized by a set of possible hypotheses, each of which is associated with a real valued cost that describes the sensibility of the belief that the members of the hypothesis correspond to a common cause. Using MWSP, the system then selects the lowest total cost set of hypotheses, such that no two selected hypotheses share a common observation. Observations that are not included in any selected hypothesis, define the set of false observations can be thought of as false observations/noise. The system can be utilized to support one or more trained computer models in performing computer vision on input data in order to generate output data.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1 A system for training a model for a computer system, comprising: a computer system in communication with a database including raw input data; and a set packing engine executed by the first computer system, the set packing engine: processing the raw input data to formulate correlation clustering corresponding to the raw input data as an integer linear program; processing the correlation clustering to generate an expanded formulation of the correlation clustering; solving the expanded formulation using a column generation process; and transmitting training information corresponding to the solved expanded formulation to a model system, the training information assisting the model system in performing computer vision processing on input data to identify output data.
2. The system of Claim 1, wherein the set packing engine formulates sequences of subtracks for detecting people in one or more video frames as an integer linear problem.
3. The system of Claim 2, wherein the set packing engine defines a set of detections of people in the one or more video frames.
4. The system of Claim 3, wherein the set packing engine decomposes track costs in terms of subtrack costs.
5. The system of Claim 4, wherein the set packing engine augments sets of subtracks with subtracks padded with empty detections.
6. The system of Claim 1, wherein the set packing engine identifies a plurality of body parts in one or more video frames.
7. The system of Claim 6, wherein the set packing engine associates pairs of detections with costs associated with a common person.
8. The system of Claim 7, wherein the set packing engine aggregates the detections to form representations of people using an integer linear program formulation.
9. The system of Claim 1, wherein the set packing engine denotes a set of human body part detections using the raw input data.
10. The system of Claim 9, wherein the set packing engine defines a set of people as a power set of the set of human body part detections.
11. The system of Claim 10, wherein the set packing engine defines a cost for a person.
12. The system of Claim 11, wherein the set packing engine models a person according to a common tree structured model.
13. The system of Claim 1, wherein the set packing engine performs dimensionality reduction by partitioning sets of pixels into sets of super-pixels.
14. The system of Claim 13, wherein the set packing engine provides a cost for each pair of adjacent super-pixels to be associated with a common cell.
15. The system of Claim 14, wherein the set packing engine computes a maximum radius and an area of each cell.
16. The system of Claim 1, wherein the set packing engine generates: (i) a set of observations corresponding to a set of superpixels, and (ii) a set of hypotheses corresponding to a set of biological cells.
17. The system of Claim 16, wherein the set packing engine defines a radius constraint as a cost.
18. The system of Claim 17, wherein the set packing engine denotes an upper bound on an area of a cell and an area of a superpixel.
19. The system of Claim 18, wherein the set packing engine defines a volume constraint as a cost.
20. The system of Claim 19, wherein the set packing engine describes image-level evidence corresponding to a quality of a cell.
21. The system of Claim 1, wherein the set packing engine tightens linear programming relaxation of a minimum weight set packing framework.
22. The system of Claim 21, wherein the set packing engine determines whether sub row inequalities destroy a structure of a pricing problem.
23. The system of Claim 22, wherein the set packing engine solves the pricing problem while modifying the structure of the pricing problem.
24. The system of Claim 22, wherein the set packing engine solves the pricing problem without modifying the structure of the pricing problem.
25. A method for training a model for a computer system, comprising the steps of: processing at a processor raw input data to formulate correlation clustering corresponding to the raw input data as an integer linear program; processing the correlation clustering to generate an expanded formulation of the correlation clustering; solving the expanded formulation using a column generation process; and transmitting training information corresponding to the solved expanded formulation to a model system, the training information assisting the model system in performing computer vision processing on input data to identify output data.
26. The method of Claim 25, further comprising formulating sequences of subtracks for detecting people in one or more video frames as an integer linear problem.
27. The method of Claim 26, further comprising defining a set of detections of people in the one or more video frames.
28. The method of Claim 27, further comprising decomposing track costs in terms of subtrack costs.
29. The method of Claim 28, further comprising augmenting sets of subtracks with subtracks padded with empty detections.
30. The method of Claim 25, further comprising identifying a plurality of body parts in one or more video frames.
31. The method of Claim 30, further comprising associating pairs of detections with costs associated with a common person.
32. The method of Claim 31, further comprising aggregating the detections to form representations of people using an integer linear program formulation.
33. The method of Claim 25, further comprising denoting a set of human body part detections using the raw input data.
34. The method of Claim 33, further comprising defining a set of people as a power set of the set of human body part detections.
35. The method of Claim 34, further comprising defining a cost for a person.
36. The method of Claim 35, further comprising modeling a person according to a common tree structured model.
37. The method of Claim 25, further comprising performing dimensionality reduction by partitioning sets of pixels into sets of super-pixels.
38. The method of Claim 37, further comprising providing a cost for each pair of adjacent super-pixels to be associated with a common cell.
39. The method of Claim 38, further comprising computing a maximum radius and an area of each cell.
40. The method of Claim 25, further comprising generating: (i) a set of observations corresponding to a set of superpixels, and (ii) a set of hypotheses corresponding to a set of biological cells.
41. The method of Claim 40, further comprising defining a radius constraint as a cost.
42. The method of Claim 41, further comprising denoting an upper bound on an area of a cell and an area of a superpixel.
43. The method of Claim 42, further comprising defining a volume constraint as a cost.
44. The method of Claim 43, further comprising describing image-level evidence corresponding to a quality of a cell.
45. The method of Claim 25, further comprising tightening linear programming relaxation of a minimum weight set packing framework.
46. The method of Claim 45, further comprising determing whether sub-row inequalities destroy a structure of a pricing problem.
47. The method of Claim 46, further comprising solving the pricing problem while modifying the structure of the pricing problem.
48. The method of Claim 47, further comprising solving the pricing problem without modifying the structure of the pricing problem.
</claims>
</document>
