<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W56/00,H04W74/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FRAUNHOFER
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAUSTEIN, THOMAS
HELLGE, CORNELIUS
SCHIERL, THOMAS
FEHRENBACH, THOMAS
THIELE, LARS
UTKOVSKI, ZORAN
DOMMEL, JOHANNES
GÖKTEPE, BARIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66999658
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA-CENTRIC EVENT-BASED RANDOM ACCESS PROCEDURE
</title>

<abstract>
A device for communicating in a wireless communication network to transmit transmission information by transmitting a wireless signal in a random access channel of wireless communication network comprises a wireless interface configured for transmitting the wireless signal and a control unit configured for providing the wireless signals so as to comprise a random access preamble. The control unit is configured for selecting the random access preamble/that the random access preamble is associated with the transmission information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Device for communicating in a wireless communication network to transmit transmission information, by transmitting a wireless signal in a Random Access Channel of the wireless communication network, the device comprising: a wireless interface configured for transmitting the wireless signal; a control unit configured for providing the wireless signal so as to comprise a random access preamble; wherein the control unit is configured for selecting the random access preamble such that the random access preamble is associated with the transmission information.
2. The device of claim 1 , wherein the transmission information is based on an at least one of the following:
• identifier of the device or
• arrival of a message
• pre-configuration of the network
• device class
• service class of the message
• priority class of the message
« reliability class of the message
• latency class of the message
• message type
• message content
® device priority
• service policy
• channel occupancy/quality measure.
3. The device of claim 1 or 2, wherein the control unit is configured for receiving, from an application of the device a Quality of Service (QoS) information related to the transmission information and for selecting the random access preamble based on the QoS information.
4. The device of one of previous claims, wherein the transmission information is related to data collected by the device or received by the device.
5. The device of one of previous claims, wherein the control unit is configured for receiving information indicating a preconfigured message to be transmitted with the wireless interface and for selecting the random access preamble so as to at least partially represent the preconfigured message.
6. The device of one of previous claims, wherein the control unit is configured for selecting the random access preamble based on the transmission information and from a set of random access preambles having at least one random access preamble, the set of random access preambles being a dedicated subset of random access preambles of the wireless communication network.
7. The device of claim 5, wherein the subset is one of a plurality of distinct subsets, each subset comprising at least one random access preamble; wherein each subset is associated with a subset identifier indicating a first information; wherein the random access preamble of a subset is associated with a second information.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein the plurality of subsets comprise preambles that are orthogonal between the sets.
9. The device of claim 7 or 8, wherein the first information is related to at least one of information indicating an identifier of the device; information indicating a device class of the device; and information indicating a service class of the transmission information; wherein the second information is related to at least one of information indicating the transmission information; information indicating a service class of the transmission information; and information indicating a reliability measure of the device/observation.
10. The device of one of previous claims, wherein the wireless signal is a first wireless signal related to the transmission information; wherein the random access preamble is a first random access preamble related to the transmission information; wherein the device is configured for transmitting a second wireless signal unrelated to the transmission information; wherein the device is configured for transmitting a second random access preamble so as to reserve for resources of the wireless communication network for subsequently transmitting the second wireless signal.
11. The device of one of previous claims, wherein the device is configured for using a resource of a set of predetermined resources dedicated for transmitting the wireless signal to a transmission of transmission information -related wireless signals.
12. The device of claim 10 or 11 , wherein the control unit is configured for selecting the first random access preamble from a first set of random access preambles and for selecting the second random access preamble from a second, distinct set of random access preambles.
13. The device of one of previous claims, wherein the wireless signal is a first wireless signal; wherein the device is configured for transmitting a second wireless signal comprising further information related to the transmission information after having transmitted the first wireless signal.
14. The device of claim 3, wherein the device is configured for using a predetermined resource of the wireless network for transmitting the second wireless signal.
15. The device of claim 14, wherein the predetermined resource is dedicated to the device within the wireless communication network; or wherein the control unit is configured for selecting the predetermined resource from a pool of predetermined resources.
16. The device of one of claims 13 to 15, wherein the device is configured for transmitting a contention resolution signal after transmitting the first wireless signal and prior to transmitting the second wireless signal.
17. The device of claim 16, wherein the device is configured for receiving scheduling information indicating a scheduled resource of the wireless communication network and for using the scheduled resource for transmitting the second wireless signal.
18. The device of one of previous claims, wherein the device is configured for transmitting the random access preamble as a first random access preamble so as to indicate a message class of the wireless signal or a group of devices to which the device belongs; and for seamlessly transmitting a second random access preamble for contention resolution.
19. The device of one of previous claims, wherein the wireless signal is a first wireless signal, wherein the device is configured for transmitting a second wireless signal subsequent to the first wireless signal for contention resolution; wherein the device is configured for transmitting one of the first wireless signal and the second wireless signal synchronized with the base station and for transmitting the other wireless signal unsynchronized with the base station or with an individualized timing at the base station; or wherein the device is configured for transmitting the first wireless signal and the second wireless signal unsynchronized with the base station or with an individualized timing at the base station.
20. The device of claim 19, wherein the device is configured for transmitting the first wireless signal and the second wireless signal with an individualized timing at the base station; wherein the individualized timing for the first wireless signal and the second wireless signal is same or different.
21. The device of claim 19 or 20, wherein the device is configured for choosing a time value for the individualized timing based on the transmission information or pre configured.
22. Device for communicating in a wireless communication network by transmitting a wireless signal, the wireless communication network operated by a base station by use of a synchronization at the base station; the device comprising a wireless interface; wherein the device is configured for transmitting, with the wireless interface, one of a first wireless signal and a second wireless signal synchronized with the base station and for transmitting the other wireless signal unsynchronized with the base station or with an individualized timing at the base station; or wherein the device is configured for transmitting the first wireless signal and the second wireless signal unsynchronized with the base station or with an individualized timing at the base station; wherein the first and/or second wireless signal is associated with contention resolution at the base station.
23. The device of one of previous claims, wherein the device is a narrowband Internet-ofThings device configured for transmitting the wireless signal in a narrowband physical random access channel.
24. Base station for operating a wireless communication network so as to provide for a random access resource to be used by a device for a random access procedure for transmitting a wireless signal having a random access preamble of a plurality of random access preambles; wherein the base station is configured for associating a random access preamble received with a first wireless signal to a transmission information being reported by the device and for not associating a second random access preamble received with a second wireless signal with the transmission information.
25. The base station of claim 24, wherein the base station is configured to operate the wireless network communication network so as to allow communication between the base station and a first device and a second device, wherein the base station is configured for associating a random access preamble transmitted by the first device with a first transmission information and for associating the random access preamble transmitted by the second device with a second, different transmission information.
26. The base station of claim 24 or 25, wherein the base station is configured for interpreting the random access preamble at least as part of payload data transmitted by the device.
27. The base station of one of claims 24 to 26, wherein the base station is configured for receiving the first wireless signal, for identifying the transmission information based on the random access preamble and for performing contention resolution after having identified the transmission information.
28. The base station of claim 27, wherein the random access preamble is associated with an identifier, wherein the base station is configured for performing the contention resolution based on a transmission of the identifier so as to initiate a random access procedure of devices having transmitted a wireless signal containing the random access preamble associated with the identifier.
29. The base station of one of claims 24 to 28, wherein the base station is configured for broadcasting information indicating an association of the transmission information with the random access preamble in a system information block of a communication scheme of the wireless communication network.
30. The base station of one of claims 24 to 29, wherein the base station is configured for evaluating the random access resource for a first random access preamble indicating a group of devices and for a second random access preamble indicating an identifier of the device.
31. Base station for operating a wireless communication network; wherein the base station is configured for operating the wireless communication network such that a device communicating in the wireless communication network compensates for a timing offset based on a channel delay so as to synchronize with the base station; wherein the base station is configured for controlling the device so as to transmit a wireless signal for contention resolution unsynchronized with the base station or with an individualized timing at the base station.
32. Wireless communication network comprising at least one base station according to one of claims 24 to 31 ; and at least one device according to one of claims 1 to 23.
33. Method for operating a device adapted for communicating in a wireless communication network to transmit information related to a transmission information at the device by transmitting a wireless signal in a Random Access Channel of the wireless communication network, the method comprising: selecting the random access preamble such that the random access preamble is associated with the transmission information; providing the wireless signal so as to comprise the random access preamble; and transmitting the wireless signal.
34. Method for operating a wireless device adapted for communicating in a wireless communication network by transmitting a wireless signal, the wireless communication network operated by a base station by use of a synchronization at the base station; the method comprising: transmitting, with a wireless interface, a first wireless signal synchronized with the base station; transmitting a second wireless signal associated with contention resolution at the base station unsynchronized with the base station or with an individualized timing at the base station.
35. Method for operating a base station adapted for operating a wireless communication network so as to provide for a random access resource to be used by a device for a random access procedure for transmitting a wireless signal having a random access preamble of a plurality of random access preambles; the method comprising: associating a random access preamble received with a first wireless signal to a transmission information being reported by the device; and not associating a second random access preamble received with a second wireless signal with the transmission information.
36. Method for operating a base station adapted for operating a wireless communication network; the method comprising: operating the wireless communication network such that a device communicating in the wireless communication network compensates for a timing offset based on a channel delay so as to synchronize with the base station; and controlling the device so as to transmit a wireless signal for contention resolution unsynchronized with the base station or with an individualized timing at the base station.
37. A computer readable digital storage medium having stored thereon a computer program having a program code for performing, when running on a computer, a method according to one of claims 33 to 36.
</claims>
</document>
