<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q10/08,G06Q50/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
L2F
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAO, KRISHNA
LANGE, SHAWN
PIETZ, DEREK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69743941
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BEVERAGE DISPENSING AND MONITORING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A beverage operations control system of an establishment such as a bar communicates with numerous wireless beverage control devices that monitor and control the pouring of beverages. The system provides monitoring and predictive analysis based on the monitoring, including real-time modifications to the operations of the beverage control devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for modifying operation of a beverage control device comprising: receiving, from each of a plurality of beverage control devices, beverage pour data; determining, based on the beverage pour data from the plurality of beverage control devices, an instruction for a particular beverage control device; and
transmitting the instruction to the particular beverage control device, wherein the instruction modifies the operation of the particular beverage control device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the instruction is determined based on data obtained from a Point-of-Sale (POS) system. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the beverage pour data comprises the number of pours by beverage, pours by bar, pours by time, pours by location, or pours by volume.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving beverage pour data comprises receiving beverage pour data associated with an employee.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the association with the employee comprises an employee identifier.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving beverage pour data comprises receiving beverage pour data associated with a customer.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the association with the customer comprises a customer ID. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving beverage pour data comprises receiving beverage pour data associated with secondary beverage information.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the secondary beverage information comprises bottle location information, wherein the bottle location information is based on information from one or more additional sensors.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the operation of the particular beverage control device comprises enabling liquid flow, preventing liquid flow, controlling quantity of liquid flow, or controlling flow rate.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the instruction is based on a plurality of bottles required for a customer order, wherein the particular beverage control device is associated with one of the plurality of bottles for the customer order.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
generating a second instruction to update an inventory; and
transmitting the second instruction to update the inventory. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
generating a second instruction to modify the operation of a secondary device; and transmitting the second instruction to the secondary device.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the secondary device is a wearable electronic device associated with an employee. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the operation of the secondary device comprises granting employee authorization.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the secondary device is a customer-facing electronic device associated with a customer.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the operation of the secondary device comprises granting customer authorization.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the operation of the secondary device comprises granting access to a location.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the instruction is further based on establishment-level data analysis.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein establishment-level data analysis comprises analysis of pours, pricing, overpours, time of pours, type of beverage, employee information, customer information, point-of-sale information, or other sensor information.
21. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the instruction is further based on entity -level data analysis.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein entity-level data analysis comprises analysis of establishment-level data from a plurality of establishments associated with the entity and additional data external to the plurality of establishments.
23. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the instruction is further based on industry-level data analysis.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein industry-level data analysis comprises analysis of entity -level data from a plurality of entities associated with the industry and additional data external to the plurality of entities.
25. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the instruction is further based on predictive analysis.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the predictive analysis comprises beverage recommendations.
27. The method of claim 25, wherein the predictive analysis comprises modifications to a plurality of beverage types or quantities of beverage pours.
28. The method of claim 25, wherein the predictive analysis is based on social media data.
29. The method of claim 1, further comprising calculating a forecasted trend using a Naive Bayes classification.
30. The method of claim 1, further comprising calculating a forecasted trend using time series forecasting.
31. The method of claim 1, wherein the instruction comprises a predictive maintenance instruction for the particular beverage control device.
32. The method of claim 1, wherein the instruction comprises information to provide to an employee associated with the device.
33. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the instruction comprises analyzing data using K-means cluster analysis.
34. The method of claim 1, wherein determining an instruction comprises analyzing data using linear regression.
35. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving, from a POS system, an order associated with a customer, wherein the order comprises a requested set of items;
determining that the particular beverage control device is associated with a particular item of the requested set of items;
comparing, from beverage pour data of the particular beverage control device, a poured volume of liquid and a predetermined volume of the liquid for the particular item; determining, from the comparison, if a mis-pour was made; and
in response to determining that a mis-pour was made:
transmitting an alert; and
storing a record of the mis-pour.
36. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving, from a POS system, a dollar amount charged to a customer;
calculating a dollar amount associated with beverage pour data of the particular beverage control device;
comparing the dollar amount charged to the customer and the dollar amount associated with the beverage pour data;
determining, from the comparison, if a mis-pour was made; and
in response to determining that a mis-pour was made:
transmitting an alert; and
storing a record of the mis-pour.
37. The method of claim 1, further comprising calculating a forecasted trend based on a result of a machine learning algorithm trained based on enterprise-level data or industrylevel data.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the training comprises supervised machine learning based on a secondary data source
39. A beverage operations system, comprising:
a wireless communication interface configured to wirelessly communicate with a plurality of beverage control devices;
a memory comprising instructions stored thereon; and
a processor coupled to the communication interface and the memory, wherein the processor is configured to execute the instructions to:
receive, from each of the plurality of beverage control devices, beverage pour data; determine, based on the beverage pour data from the plurality of beverage control devices, an instruction for a particular beverage control device; and transmit the instruction to the particular beverage control device, wherein the
instruction modifies the operation of the particular beverage control device.
40. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon, that when executed by a processor of a beverage operations system case the processor to perform operations comprising:
receiving, from each of a plurality of beverage control devices, beverage pour data; determining, based on the beverage pour data from the plurality of beverage control devices, an instruction for a particular beverage control device; and
transmitting the instruction to the particular beverage control device, wherein the instruction modifies the operation of the particular beverage control device.
</claims>
</document>
