<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/00,A61B34/20,A61B90/00,A61B90/20,A61B90/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SMITH & NEPHEW
SMITH & NEPHEW ORTHOPAEDICS
SMITH & NEPHEW ASIA PACIFIC
</assignee>

<inventors>
NIKOU, CONSTANTINOS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70057322
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CO-REGISTRATION FOR AUGMENTED REALITY AND SURGICAL NAVIGATION
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments disclosed herein relate to improved systems and methods for performing computer-aided surgical navigation using augmented reality. A tracking device having one or more optically detectable points is mounted to a patient via surgical hardware. The detectable points are identified by a sensor. One or more augmented reality marker assemblies that each have an augmented reality fiducial marker or symbol are also attached to the tracking device,. A computer system generates augmented reality information and transmits it to a display screen, such as a near-eye augmented reality device, for display thereon. The near-eye augmented reality device also has an image capture device capable of capturing the augmented reality symbols, and thereby determining a three-dimensional orientation associated with the tracking device, augmented reality markers, and a user wearing the near-eye reality device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A surgical system comprising:
a tracking device comprising a first fiducial marker configured for use with a surgical navigation tracking system, the tracking device configured to be mounted to a patient;
an augmented reality marker assembly comprising a second fiducial marker configured for use with an augmented reality system, the augmented reality marker assembly configured to be attached to the tracking device at a fixed orientation;
a sensor assembly configured to identify locations of each of the first fiducial marker and the second fiducial marker; and
a control system communicably connected to the sensor assembly, the control system configured to:
determine a first three-dimensional orientation of the patient by locating the first fiducial marker via the sensor assembly,
determine a second three-dimensional orientation of the augmented reality marker assembly by locating the second fiducial marker via the sensor assembly, and
determine a relationship between the first three-dimensional orientation and the second three-dimensional orientation according to the fixed orientation of the augmented reality marker assembly relative to the tracking device.
2. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the control system further comprises a display screen, wherein the control system is further configured to cause the display screen to display surgical data according to the relationship.
3. The surgical system of claim 2, wherein the display screen comprises at least one of a near-eye display or a head-mounted display.
4. The surgical system of claim 2, wherein the second fiducial marker is configured to identify a type of the augmented reality marker assembly.
5. The surgical system of claim 4, wherein:
the type of the augmented reality marker assembly corresponds to a surgical procedure type; and
the control system is further configured to cause the display screen to display surgical data according to the surgical procedure type.
6. The surgical system of claim 2, wherein:
the control system is further configured to generate a surgical plan; and
at least a portion of the surgical data displayed via the display screen comprises the surgical plan.
7. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein:
the augmented reality marker assembly comprises a plurality of fastening
mechanisms; and
the plurality of fastening mechanisms are configured to be attached to a frame of the tracking device in a particular manner that causes the augmented reality marker assembly to assume the fixed orientation.
8. The surgical system of claim 7, wherein the plurality of fastening mechanisms comprises a plurality of clips.
9. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein:
the control system comprises a plurality of augmented reality marker assemblies, which comprise the augmented reality marker assembly;
the plurality of augmented reality marker assemblies each comprise an augmented reality fiducial marker;
the plurality of augmented reality marker assemblies are configured to attach to the tracking device at a plurality of attachment points; and
each of the augmented reality fiducial markers is configured to identify the type of the augmented reality marker assembly and at which of the plurality of attachment points the augmented reality marker assembly is attached.
10. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the sensor assembly comprises a sensor configured to identify locations of each of the first fiducial marker and the second fiducial marker.
11. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the sensor assembly comprises:
a first sensor configured to identify a first location of the first fiducial marker; and a second sensor configured to identify a second location of the second fiducial marker.
12. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the sensor assembly comprises a plurality of tracking cameras.
13. A tracking device attachment for correlating a tracking system coordinate frame with an augmented reality system coordinate frame, the tracking device attachment comprising: a fiducial marker configured to be identified by an augmented reality system; and a plurality of fastening mechanisms configured to attach the tracking device attachment to a tracking device at a fixed orientation, wherein the tracking device comprises a marker configured to be identified by a surgical navigation system and configured to be mounted to a patient.
14. The tracking device attachment of claim 13, wherein the fiducial marker is configured to identify a type of the tracking device attachment.
15. The tracking device attachment of claim 14, wherein the type of the tracking device attachment corresponds to a surgical procedure type.
16. The tracking device attachment of claim 13, wherein the plurality of fastening mechanisms are configured to be attached to a frame of the tracking device in a particular manner that causes the tracking device attachment to assume the fixed orientation.
17. The surgical system of claim 13, wherein the plurality of fastening mechanisms comprises a plurality of clips.
18. A surgical system comprising:
a sensor assembly configured to:
identify a first location of a first fiducial marker associated with a tracking device, the tracking device configured to be mounted to a patient, wherein the first fiducial marker is configured for use with a surgical navigation system, and identify a second location of a second fiducial marker associated with an augmented reality marker assembly, the augmented reality marker assembly configured to be attached to the tracking device at a fixed orientation, wherein the second fiducial marker is configured for use with an augmented reality system; and
a control system communicably connected to the sensor assembly, the control system configured to:
determine a first three-dimensional orientation of the patient by locating the first fiducial marker via the sensor assembly,
determine a second three-dimensional orientation of the augmented reality marker assembly by locating the second fiducial marker via the sensor assembly, and
determine a relationship between the first three-dimensional orientation and the second three-dimensional orientation according to the fixed orientation of the augmented reality marker assembly relative to the tracking device.
</claims>
</document>
