<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/30,G10L19/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACV AUCTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAMPANELLA, CHARLIE
CAROLUS, KEITH
FEDORISHIN, DENNIS CHRISTOPHER
GERSHBEIN, REID
MAGNUSZEWSKI, DANIEL
POKORA, MICHAEL
POULSEN, TIMOTHY
SCHNEIDER, PHILIP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71610064
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VEHICLE AUDIO CAPTURE AND DIAGNOSTICS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for capturing and processing audio data of a vehicle engine. In one aspect, a vehicle audio capture system includes a mobile device configured to capture vehicle engine sounds in an audio file and to associate tags identifying one or more vehicle conditions observed during audio capture and reflected in the audio file, and a server configured to process the audio file and expose an application programming interface (API) to provide access to the audio file to one or more data consumer devices. In some instances, a condition report server is configured to access the application programming interface to retrieve a version of the audio file and include data describing the audio file within a vehicle condition report. Additionally, tags may be added to the audio file based on detected engine conditions. Detection of engine conditions may be based on use of trained models.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A server computing device for providing vehicle condition reports, the server computing device comprising:
a processor;
a memory operatively connected to the processor and storing instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the server computing device to:
receive training audio files of recordings of vehicle engines, the training audio files including an audio recording of at least one known engine condition;
train one or more models to predict the known engine condition using the received audio files and the at least one known engine condition, thereby creating one or more trained models;
receive an audio file of a recording of a vehicle engine and vehicle identification information of the vehicle associated with the vehicle engine;
perform pre-processing of the audio file, the pre-processing including one or more of:
normalizing length, volume or amplitude of an audio signal included in the audio file; and
filtering noise from the audio file;
select a trained model from among the one or more trained models based, at least in part, on the vehicle identification information;
obtain one or more predicted condition tags and associated confidence values based on output of the model; and
generate a vehicle condition report including a representation of the audio file and at least one of the one or more predicted condition tags.
2. The server computing device of claim 1, wherein the server computing device includes a database including a plurality of trained models maintained in a model library, and wherein the server computing device is configured to select a trained model from the database based on the vehicle identification information.
3. The server computing device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to, in response to receiving a request for the vehicle condition report from a remote computing device, provide the vehicle condition report including the representation of the audio file and the at least one predicted condition tag to the remote computing device.
4. The server computing device of claim 3, wherein the audio files are received from a mobile inspection device, wherein the remote computing device is a different computing device as compared to the mobile inspection device.
5. The server computing device of claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to:
identify a location which corresponds to the at least one predicted condition tag in the visual representation of the audio file; and
send the visual representation, including a visual representation of the tag located at the location, to the remote computing device.
6. The server computing device of claim 1, further comprising:
a database storing a plurality of trained models;
wherein the processor is further configured to:
select a trained model from the database based on the one or more segments.
7. The server computing device of claim 6, wherein the processor further selects the trained model from the database based on the vehicle identification information.
8. A method of capturing and processing audio comprising:
receiving vehicle identification information;
placing a mobile device configured to capture audio in a digital format and including at least one microphone in proximity to a vehicle;
initiating audio capture using the mobile device and microphone; starting the vehicle engine while the mobile device is capturing audio;
idling the engine while the mobile device is capturing audio;
placing the engine under varying power potential while the mobile device is capturing audio;
stopping the engine;
ending audio capture and storing the digitally captured audio in an audio file; tagging the audio file with information related to conditions during audio capture;
associating the vehicle identification information with the audio file;
uploading the audio file to a remote computing device for processing of the audio file.
9. The method claim 8, further comprising confirming a detected condition within a visual representation of the captured audio.
10. The method claim 9, wherein the visual representation of the captured audio comprises a Mel power spectrogram.
11. The method claim 9, further comprising:
at the remote computing device, automatically detecting one or more features in the visual representation of the captured audio;
at the remote computing device, automatically identifying the locations of the one or more features in the visual representation of the captured audio; and
displaying, via the mobile device, the one or more identified locations in the visual representation of the captured audio.
12. A method of predicting conditions of a vehicle engine comprising:
receiving an audio file recording of the vehicle engine;
receiving vehicle identification information of a vehicle associated with the vehicle engine; deriving one or more tags identifying vehicle conditions observed in the audio file using one more models trained on audio files associated with other vehicles; and generating one or more predicted condition tags associated with the audio file.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising:
selecting the one or more models based on the vehicle identification
information.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the other vehicles are analogous vehicles to the vehicle engine.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein at least one of the models is associated with a tag identifying a vehicle condition.
16. The method of claim 12, further comprising generating a display including each of the one or more predicted condition tags in association with a confidence score.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the one or more features are selected from a group of features consisting of: ambient noise recorded before engine start, engine start, engine idling, engine under load, engine shut off, abnormalities during the periods of time encompassed by any of the engine start, engine idling, engine under load, and engine shut off events.
18. The method of claim 12, further comprising:
normalizing at least one of a length and a volume of the audio file;
filtering noise from the audio file; and
segmenting the audio file into a plurality of audio segments for analysis.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising:
selecting one or more models associated with each segment of the plurality of segments of the audio file.
20. The method of claim 12, further comprising generating a visual representation of the audio file.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising:
identifying locations of the one or more features which correspond to the tags in the visual representation of the audio file; and
displaying the one or more identified locations in the visual representation of the captured audio.
22. A vehicle audio capture system comprising:
a mobile device configured to capture vehicle engine sounds in an audio file and to associate tags identifying one or more vehicle conditions observed during audio capture and reflected in the audio file;
a server communicatively accessible by the mobile device, the server being configured to:
process the audio file; and
expose an application programming interface (API) to provide access to the audio file to one or more data consumer devices.
23. The vehicle audio capture system of claim 22, further comprising a vibration resistant and anti-slip mobile device case including a microphone communicatively connectable to the mobile device during capture of the vehicle engine sounds.
24. The vehicle audio capture system of claim 22, further comprising a condition report server configured to access the application programming interface to retrieve a version of the audio file and include data describing the audio file within a vehicle condition report.
25. The vehicle audio capture system of claim 24, wherein the server is further configured to include the audio data in a vehicle condition report.
26. The vehicle audio capture system of claim 24, wherein the condition report server is further configured to generate a visual representation of the captured audio.
27. The vehicle audio capture system of claim 24, wherein the data describing the audio file includes one or more tags associated with the audio file.
28. The vehicle audio capture system of claim 22, further comprising a plurality of mobile devices configured to capture vehicle engine sounds.
29. The vehicle audio capture system of claim 22, wherein the server is configured to process the audio file by analyzing the audio file with reference to audio files of analogous vehicles to identify a location within the audio file corresponding to one or more conditions of the vehicle.
30. The vehicle audio capture system of claim 29, wherein analyzing the audio file comprises extracting one or more features from the audio file using a trained model.
31. The vehicle audio capture system of claim 29, wherein the trained model comprises a neural network.
32. The vehicle audio capture system of claim 29, wherein the one or more features are selected from a group of features consisting of: ambient noise recorded before engine start, engine start, engine idling, engine under load, engine shut off,
abnormalities during the periods of time encompassed by any of the engine start, engine idling, engine under load, and engine shut off events.
33. The vehicle audio capture system of claim 29, wherein the trained model is selected from a model library, the trained model being trained using audio files associated with a particular make, model, and year of the vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
