<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W36/00,H04W36/14,H04W92/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CUI, ZHI
LEI, HONGYAN
MAJMUNDAR, MILAP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69374424
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FACILITATING AUTOMATIC NEIGHBOR RELATIONSHIPS FOR 5G OR OTHER NEXT GENERATION NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Additional attributes to 5th generation (5G) neighbor cell relationships can be incorporated into a neighbor cell relationship table (NCRT). Messages between centralized units can support a hierarchical neighbor relation structure in a virtualized 5G radio access network (RAN). The additional attributes can improve the efficiency of 5G neighbor relation management via intra-centralized unit, inter-centralized unit, inter-radio access technology, and intra-radio access technology mobility management. 5G new radio (NR) long-term evolution (LTE) dual connectivity performance can also be improved by enabling the dual connectivity in the best suitable 5G NR cell.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method, comprising:
receiving, by a wireless network device comprising a processor, wireless data from a first base station device of a wireless network, wherein the first base station device is a new radio donor unit device, and wherein the wireless network device is a virtualized central unit device;
connecting, by the wireless network device, to a first core network device of a first core network and a second core network device of a second core network, wherein the first core network is a next generation core network, and wherein the second core network is an evolved packet core network; and
connecting, by the wireless network device, to a second base station device to facilitate a communication between a mobile device and the evolved packet core network, wherein the second base station device is a long-term evolution base station device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the mobile device communicates with the long-term evolution base station device via a long-term evolution user plane signal, and wherein the mobile device communicates with the first base station device via a fifth generation user plane signal.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the mobile device communicates with the long-term evolution base station device via a long-term evolution control plane signal.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the control plane signal is a first control plane signal, and wherein the long-term evolution base station device communicates with the virtualized central unit device via a second control plane signal.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the long-term evolution base station device communicates with the second core network device via a third control plane signal.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the virtualized central unit is a first virtualized central unit, and wherein the first core network device communicates with a second virtualized central unit via a user plane signal.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the virtualized central unit is a first virtualized central unit, and wherein the first core network device communicates with a second virtualized central unit via a control plane signal.
8. A virtualized central unit device, comprising:
a processor; and
a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising:
receiving wireless data from a first base station device of a wireless network, wherein the first base station device is a new radio donor unit device;
connecting to a first core network device of a first core network and a second core network device of a second core network, wherein the first core network is a next generation core network, and wherein the second core network is an evolved packet core network; and
connecting to a second base station device to facilitate a communication between a mobile device and the evolved packet core network, wherein the second base station device is a long-term evolution base station device.
9. The virtualized central unit device of claim 8, wherein the virtualized central unit device is a first virtualized central unit device, and wherein the first core network device communicates with a second virtualized central unit device via a user plane signal.
10. The virtualized central unit device of claim 9, wherein a data structure of the first virtualized central unit device comprises a first transmission point device associated with the first virtualized central unit device and a second transmission point device associated with the second virtualized central unit device.
11. The virtualized central unit device of claim 10, wherein the data structure of the first virtualized central unit lists the first transmission point device and the second transmission point device as neighboring transmission point devices.
12. The virtualized central unit device of claim 9, wherein the new radio donor unit device is a first new radio donor unit device, and wherein the second virtualized central unit device communicates with a second new radio donor unit device of the wireless network.
13. The virtualized central unit device of claim 12, wherein the first new radio donor unit device and the second new radio donor unit device are neighboring new radio donor unit devices.
14. The virtualized central unit device of claim 8, wherein the new radio donor unit device and the second base station device are neighboring devices.
15. The virtualized central unit device of claim 8, wherein the new radio donor unit device comprises a radio unit device.
16. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising:
receiving, by a virtualized central unit device, wireless data from a first base station device of a wireless network, wherein the first base station device is a new radio donor unit device;
communicating with a first core network device of a first core network and a second core network device of a second core network, wherein the first core network is a next generation core network, and wherein the second core network is an evolved packet core network; and
communicating with a second base station device to facilitate a communication between a mobile device and the evolved packet core network, wherein the second base station device is a long-term evolution base station device.
17. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the virtualized central unit device is a first virtualized central unit device, wherein the first core network device communicates with a second virtualized central unit device via a user plane signal, and wherein the new radio donor unit device communicates with a transmission reception point device via a hierarchical anchor cell neighbor relationship.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein a data structure of the first virtualized central unit device comprises a first reception point device associated with the first virtualized central unit device and a second reception point device associated with the second virtualized central unit device, wherein the new radio donor unit device is a first new radio donor unit device, and wherein the first new radio donor unit device and a second new radio donor unit device are neighboring new radio donor unit devices.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the data structure of the first virtualized central unit device comprises handover data representative of a determination of a handover to be satisfied between the neighboring new radio donor unit devices.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the data structure of the first virtualized central unit device comprises removal data representative of a removal status of a neighbor relationship between the first new radio donor unit device and the second new radio donor unit device.
</claims>
</document>
