<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F03D17/00,F03D7/02,G05B23/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS GAMESA RENEWABLE ENERGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PEDERSEN, Niels Lovmand
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66999550
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A METHOD FOR COMPUTER-IMPLEMENTED MONITORING OF A COMPONENT OF A WIND TURBINE
</title>

<abstract>
A method for computer-implemented monitoring of a component of a wind turbine The invention refers to a method for computer-implemented monitoring of a component of a wind turbine, where the wind turbine is a first wind turbine (1) and the component is a first component (6, 7, 8) and where the method has access to a trained machine learning model (ML) which has been trained for one or more second components (6', 7', 8') of the same type of one or more second wind turbines (1'). The trained machine learning model (ML) is configured to provide an output (OU) referring to a predetermined fault (FT) occurring at a second component (6', 7', 8') of a second wind turbine (1') by processing vibration signals (VS') in a predetermined domain which are measured in the vicinity of the second component (6', 7', 8') during the operation of the second wind turbine (1'). In a step i), vibration signals (VS) in the predetermined domain measured in the vicinity of the first component (6, 7, 8) during the operation of the first wind turbine (1) are provided. In a step ii), the vibration signals (VS) are mapped to corresponding vibration signals (VS') valid for the second component (6', 7', 8') based on one or more given kinematic parameters (KP1) of the first component (6, 7, 8) and one or more given kinematic parameters (KP2) of the second component (6', 7', 8'). In a step ill), the machine learning model (ML) is applied to the vibration signals (VS') valid for the second component (6', 7', 8'), resulting in an output (OU) referring to the predetermined fault (FT) occurring at the first component (6, 7, 8).
</abstract>

<claims>
Patent Claims
1. A method for computer-implemented monitoring of a compo nent of a wind turbine, where the wind turbine is a first wind turbine (1) and the component is a first component (6,
7, 8) and where the method has access to a trained machine learning model (ML) which has been trained for one or more second components (6', 7', 8') of the same type of one or more second wind turbines ( 1 ' ) , the one or more second wind turbines (1') being wind turbines of another type than the first wind turbine (1), where the trained machine learning model (ML) is configured to provide an output (OU) referring to a predetermined fault (FT) occurring at a second component (6', 7', 8') of a second wind turbine (1') by processing vi bration signals (VS') in a predetermined domain which are measured in the vicinity of the second component (6', 7', 8') during the operation of the second wind turbine (1'), the method comprising the steps of:
i) providing vibration signals (VS) in the predetermined domain measured in the vicinity of the first component (6, 7, 8) during the operation of the first wind turbine
(1) ;
ii) mapping the vibration signals (VS) to corresponding vi bration signals (VS') valid for the second component (6', 7', 8') based on one or more given kinematic param eters (KP1) of the first component (6, 7, 8) and one or more given kinematic parameters (KP2) of the second com ponent ( 6 ' , 7 ' , 8 ' ) ;
iii) applying the machine learning model (ML) to the vibra tion signals (VS') valid for the second component (6',
7', 8'), resulting in an output (OU) referring to the predetermined fault (FT) occurring at the first compo nent (6, 7 , 8 ) .
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the predetermined domain is the frequency domain or the cepstrum domain.
3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the one or more given kinematic parameters (KP1) of the first component
(6, 7, 8) are described by the same function type as the one or more given kinematic parameters (KP2) of the second compo nent (6', 7', 8') but with different function parameters.
4. The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the one or more given kinematic parameters (KP1) of the first component (6, 7, 8) are one or more specific values within the predetermined domain contained within the vibra tion signals (VS) measured in the vicinity of the first com ponent (6, 7, 8) in case that the predetermined fault (FT) occurs, and wherein the one or more given kinematic parame ters (KP2) of the second component (6', 7', 8') are one or more specific values within the predetermined domain con tained within the vibration signals (VS') measured in the vi cinity of the second component (6', 7', 8') in case that the predetermined fault (FT) occurs.
5. The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the component being monitored is a part or the drivetrain of the wind turbine (1) .
6. The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the predetermined fault (FT) refers to a damage of a gearwheel or a damage of a bearing race or a damage of balls or rollers in a ball or roller bearing.
7. The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the machine learning model (ML) is based on one or more neural networks or on Principal Component Analysis.
8. An apparatus for monitoring of a component of a wind tur bine, where the wind turbine is a first wind turbine (1) and the component is a first component (6, 7, 8) and where the method has access to a trained machine learning model (ML) which has been trained for one or more second components (6', 7', 8') of the same type of one or more second wind turbines ( 1 ' ) , the one or more second wind turbines (1') being wind turbines of another type than the first wind turbine (1), where the trained machine learning model (ML) is configured to provide an output (OU) referring to a predetermined fault (FT) occurring at a second component (6', 7', 8') of a second wind turbine (1') by processing vibration signals (VS') in a predetermined domain which are measured in the vicinity of the second component (6', 7', 8') during the operation of the second wind turbine (1'), wherein apparatus comprises:
a means (Ml) for providing vibration signals (VS) in the predetermined domain measured in the vicinity of the first component (6, 7, 8) during the operation of the first wind turbine ( 1 ) ;
a means (M2) for mapping the vibration signals (VS) to corresponding vibration signals (VS') valid for the second component (6', 7', 8') based on one or more given kinemat ic parameters (KP1) of the first component (6, 7, 8) and one or more given kinematic parameters (KP2) of the second component ( 6 ' , 7 ' , 8 ' ) ;
a means (M3) for applying the machine learning model (ML) to the vibration signals (VS') valid for the second compo nent (6', 7', 8'), resulting in an output (OU) referring to the predetermined fault (FT) occurring at the first component (6, 7, 8) .
9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the apparatus is configured to perform a method according to one of claims 2 to 7.
10. A computer program product with program code, which is stored on a non-transitory machine-readable carrier, for car rying out a method according to one of claims 1 to 8 when the program code is executed on a computer.
11. A computer program with program code for carrying out a method according to one of claims 1 to 7 when the program code is executed on a computer.
</claims>
</document>
