<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/042,G05B19/418,G05B23/02,G06F21/55,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS
</assignee>

<inventors>
PFLEGER DE AGUIAR, LEANDRO
WEI DONG
WORONKA, STEFAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69160120
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTILEVEL CONSISTENCY CHECK FOR A CYBER ATTACK DETECTION IN AN AUTOMATION AND CONTROL SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A system and a method provide multilevel consistency check for a cyber attack detection in an automation and control system wherein the multilevel consistency check of sensor measurements, commands and settings on different automation devices on a plant floor is able to provide end-to-end intrusion detection on exchanged data. The multilevel consistency check includes a measurement consistency check and a commands and settings consistency check to enable a cyber security solution for industrial control systems (ICS). An alarm is set when detecting a first value inconsistent from a second value. An anomaly is detected based on at least one of the measurement consistency or the commands and settings consistency and it is identified as an intrusion detection.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-based method for multilevel consistency check for a cyber attack detection in an automation and control system, the method comprising:
placing at least two intelligent network sensors in the automation and control system at different control levels of the system, the control levels comprising a first control level and a second control level;
checking measurement consistency in an Intrusion Detection System (IDS) Application (APP) by comparing a first measurement value associated with a field device of the automation and control system at a first automation device of the first control level with a second measurement value associated with the field device of the automation and control system at a second automation device of the second control level;
setting a first alarm when detecting the first measurement value is inconsistent from the second measurement value;
checking commands and settings consistency in the Intrusion Detection System (IDS) Application (APP) by comparing a first commands and settings value associated with the field device of the automation and control system at the first automation device of the first control level with a second commands and settings value associated with the field device of the automation and control system at the second automation device of the second control level;
setting a second alarm when detecting the first commands and settings value is inconsistent from the second commands and settings value;
detecting an anomaly based on at least one of the measurement consistency or the commands and settings consistency; and
identifying the anomaly as an intrusion detection.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first control level is a fieldbus control level, and the second control level is a direct control level and wherein the control levels further comprise a production scheduling control level, and a production control level.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the checking measurement consistency and the checking commands and settings consistency is performed by the at least two intelligent network sensors distributed as an overlay network.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the checking measurement consistency comprises: reading measurements from I/Os and status words from Drives directly via a fieldbus.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the checking measurement consistency comprises: reading process image inputs (PII) directly from a programmable logic controller (PLC) via Ethernet.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the checking measurement consistency comprises: processing measurements values from different automation devices.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the checking measurement consistency comprises: performing data analysis in the IDS APP hosted in a cloud.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the checking measurement consistency comprises: using a reading in a programmable logic controller (PLC) as a baseline;
using a previous reading of I/Os;
using the previous reading and the reading in HMI and calculating a current reading by extrapolating; and
using the previous reading and the reading in a Log Server and calculating a current reading by extrapolating.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the checking commands and settings consistency comprises:
reading commands and settings displayed on HMIs, exchanged via an Industrial Router, a MES and a Log Server via Ethernet or WiFi.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the checking commands and settings consistency comprises:
reading process image outputs (PIQ) directly from a programmable logic controller (PLC) via the Ethernet.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the checking commands and settings consistency comprises:
reading measurements from I/Os and control words from Drives directly via a fieldbus.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the checking commands and settings consistency comprises:
processing commands and settings values from different automation devices.
13. A system for anomaly detection in an automation and control system, comprising: a plurality of intelligent network sensors, wherein at least two of the intelligent network sensors are placed at different control levels of the automation and control system, the control levels comprising a first control level and a second control level, wherein each intelligent network sensor comprises an agent configured to collect control data associated with a field device of the automation and control system, wherein each intelligent network sensor is configured to: read measurements from I/Os and status words from Drives directly via a fieldbus;
read process image inputs (PII) directly from a programmable logic controller (PLC) via Ethernet;
process measurements values from different automation devices;
read commands and settings displayed on HMIs, exchanged via an Industrial Router, a MES and a Log Server via Ethernet or WiFi;
read process image outputs (PIQ) directly from a programmable logic controller (PLC) via the Ethernet;
process commands and settings values from different automation devices; and
an Intrusion Detection System (IDS) Application (APP) hosted in a cloud and configured to:
compare a first measurement value associated with a field device of the automation and control system at a first automation device of the first control level with a second measurement value associated with the field device of the automation and control system at a second automation device of the second control level;
set a first alarm when detecting the first measurement value is inconsistent from the second measurement value;
compare a first commands and settings value associated with the field device of the automation and control system at the first automation device of the first control level with a second commands and settings value associated with the field device of the automation and control system at the second automation device of the second control level;
set a second alarm when detecting the first commands and settings value is inconsistent from the second commands and settings value;
check measurement consistency and check commands and settings consistency; detect an anomaly based on at least one of the measurement consistency or the commands and settings consistency; and
identify the anomaly as an intrusion detection.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein each intelligent network sensor comprises: a communication device for transmitting collected control data to other intelligent network sensors and receiving control data from other intelligent network sensors; and a security monitoring unit to perform data analysis.
15. The system of claim 13, further comprising:
a network server comprising a security monitoring unit to perform data analysis; and
a fieldbus, wherein at least one intelligent network sensor is coupled to the fieldbus.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the Intrusion Detection System (IDS)
Application (APP) comprises:
a consistency check module configured to compare measurement values on different automation devices at different control levels of the automation and control system to detect the anomaly.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the Intrusion Detection System (IDS)
Application (APP) comprises:
an alert module configured to trigger an alert in response to one or more anomalies being detected that surpass at least one threshold.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the plurality of intelligent network sensors is distributed as an overlay network.
19. The system of claim 13, further comprising:
a cloud-based server comprising the security monitoring unit, and the security monitoring unit comprises:
a data mapping module configured to map data from intelligent network sensors deployed at multiple control levels at other plants of a common fleet; and
a consistency check module configured to detect an anomaly based on a fleetbased analysis of control data.
20. The system of claim 13, wherein each intelligent network sensor of the plurality of intelligent network sensors is a network-based plant floor sensor and the first automation device and the second automation device are plant floor automation devices.
</claims>
</document>
