<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABOSCH, AVIVA
CHRISTENSEN, ELIJAH
THOMPSON, JOHN
ZYLBERBERG, JOEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70611336
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEEP BRAIN STIMULATION USING ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments of the present technology generally relate to closed loop deep brain stimulation based on inferred sleep stage from physiological data using machine learning classifiers. Some embodiments, for example, may use subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) to treat advanced Parkinsons Disease motor symptoms and improve sleep by identifying sleep stages commensurate with clinician-scored polysomnography (PSG). The DBS may be adapted to include novel artificial neural network (ANN) that triggers targeted stimulation in response to inferred sleep state from STN local field potentials (LFPs) recorded from implanted DBS electrodes. A feedforward neural network can be trained to prospectively identify sleep stage with PSG-level accuracy. In some embodiments, the machine learning model stored within the DBS may also adapt stimulation during specific sleep stages to treat targeted sleep deficits.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is
1 . A system comprising:
an electrode array configured to deliver electrical pulses to an area of a brain of a patient; and
a programmable generator that includes:
a power source to provide power to the programmable generator;
a neural interface management system to control the electrode array; a physiological sensing module to cause the electrode array to collect physiological data about the brain of the patient;
a classifier to process the physiological data and identify a sleep state of the patient; and
a physiological stimulation module to use the sleep state generated by the classifier to generate one or more control signals causing the electrode array to deliver electrical pulses to the area of the brain of the patient.
2. The system of claim 1 , wherein the classifier is an artificial neural network.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the artificial neural network is initially trained using a global data set of patient data.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the artificial neural network is trained by:
collecting sleep data from multiple patients in a clinical setting;
normalizing the sleep data by identifying a maximum peak and dividing by the maximum peak so that all of the sleep data has a maximum amplitude of one; and
labeling the sleep data.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein the artificial neural network has a single hidden layer.
6. The system of claim 1 , wherein in response to the classifier identifying a first sleep state, the physiological stimulation module causes the electrode array to deliver targeted stimulation to the area of the brain of the patient to improve transition from the first sleep state to a second sleep state. 7. The system of claim 1 , wherein the classifier identifies the sleep state as awake, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, or non-REM sleep.
8. A method for operating at deep brain stimulation device, the method comprising:
collecting, via an electrode array, physiological data from a brain of a patient; identifying, using machine learning, a sleep state of the brain of the patient, wherein the machine learning uses the physiological data from the brain of the patient as an input;
generating, based on the sleep state of the brain identified by the machine, a deep brain stimulation therapy;
applying, via the electrode array, electrical impulses to the brain of the patient consistent with the deep brain stimulation therapy.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the machine learning includes an artificial neural network with one or more hidden layers.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the machine learning includes a neural network, a support vector machine, a linear classifier, a nearest neighbor, decision tree, or deep learning.
1 1 . The method of claim 8, wherein the machine learning includes an artificial neural network and wherein the method further comprises collecting a set of training data from one or more sleep studies and using the set of training data to train the artificial neural network by identifying a set of weights.
12. The method of claim 1 1 , wherein using the set of training data to train the artificial neural network is done remotely from the deep brain stimulation device and the method further comprises receiving a firmware update to the deep brain stimulation device that includes the set of weights for the artificial neural network.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the physiological data includes local field potentials.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising using an external device to collect additional physiological data about the patient, identifying from the physiological data a sleep state of the patient, labeling the additional physiological data; and generating a local update to a machine learning model based on the additional physiological data.
15. A machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions that when executed by a processor cause a deep brain stimulation system to:
collect physiological data from of a patient;
identifying, using an artificial neural network, a sleep state of the patient,
wherein the artificial neural network uses the physiological data of the patient as an input and generates the sleep state as an output; generate, based on the sleep state identified by the artificial neural network, a deep brain stimulation therapy that includes one or more electrical impulses to stimulate a brain of the patient;
apply, via an electrode array, the one or more electrical impulses to the brain of the patient consistent with the deep brain stimulation therapy.
16. The machine readable medium of claim 15, the artificial neural network includes one or more hidden layers.
17. The machine readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions when executed by the processor further cause the deep brain stimulation system to collect additional physiological data from the brain of the patient after application of at least a portion of the deep brain stimulation therapy and dynamically update a remaining portion of the deep brain stimulation therapy.
18. The machine readable medium of claim 15, wherein the physiological data includes local field potentials.
19. The machine readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions when executed by the processor further cause the deep brain stimulation system to transmit the physiological data collected from the patient to a remote computing device that aggregates the physiological data from multiple patients and generates a global model for the artificial neural network.
20. The machine readable medium of claim 19, wherein the instructions when executed by the processor further cause the deep brain stimulation system to receive, the global model for the artificial neural network, from the remote computing device and refine the global model based on locally collected data.
</claims>
</document>
