<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F24F1/0003,F24F11/64,F24F11/65,F24F11/67,F24F3/06,F24F3/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JOHNSON CONTROLS TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ELLIS, MATTHEW J.
WENZEL, MICHAEL J.
BURROUGHS, JOHN H.
PRZYBYLSKI, ANDREW J.
ELBSAT, MOHAMMAD N.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71409531
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VARIABLE REFRIGERANT FLOW SYSTEM WITH ZONE GROUPING
</title>

<abstract>
A controller for a building control system includes processors and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the processors, cause the processors to perform operations including identifying zones within a building, analyzing data associated with the zones, and generating zone groupings based on the data associated with the zones. Each of the zone groupings define zone groups and specify which of the zones are grouped together to form each of the zone groups. The operations also include identifying a particular zone grouping from zone groupings based on the data associated with zones and using the particular zone grouping to generate control signals to operate equipment of the building control system to provide heating or cooling to the zones.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A controller for a building control system, the controller comprising one or more
processors and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
identifying a plurality of zones within a building;
analyzing data associated with the plurality of zones;
generating one or more zone groupings based on the data associated with the plurality of zones, each of the one or more zone groupings defining a plurality of zone groups and specifying which of the plurality of zones are grouped together to form each of the plurality of zone groups;
identifying a particular zone grouping from the one or more zone groupings based on the data associated with the plurality of zones; and
using the particular zone grouping to generate one or more control signals configured to operate equipment of the building control system to provide heating or cooling to the plurality of zones.
2. The controller of Claim 1, wherein the data associated with the plurality of zones comprises at least one of:
one or more historical zone temperature set points of the plurality of zones;
one or more historical zone operating modes of the plurality of zones; and one or more historical energy consumption values of the plurality of zones.
3. The controller of Claim 1, wherein analyzing the data associated with the plurality of zones comprises:
grouping each type of data included in the data for each of the plurality of zones over a predetermined time period to generate a plurality of data blocks for each of the plurality of zones; and
selecting one or more key features associated with the plurality of data blocks.
4. The controller of Claim 1, the operations further comprising a system identification process to generate at least one system model based on the particular zone grouping.
5. The controller of Claim 1, the operations further comprising generating one zone
grouping that is the particular zone grouping defining a plurality of zone groups and specifying which of the plurality of zones are grouped together to form each of the plurality of zone groups.
6. The controller of Claim 1, wherein analyzing the data associated with the plurality of zones further comprises:
selecting one or more clustering algorithms to identify one or more clusters comprising the data associated with the plurality of zones; and
generating the particular zone grouping based on the one or more clusters comprising the data associated with the plurality of zones.
7. The controller of Claim 6, wherein analyzing the data associated with the plurality of zones further comprises:
preclustering the plurality of zones into one or more clusters based on location data of the plurality of zones to generate a preclustering of zones comprising the plurality of zones;
comparing the preclustering of zones with the one or more clusters comprising the data associated with the plurality of zones to determine at least one similarity between the preclustering of zones and the one or more clusters; and
generating the particular zone grouping based on the at least one similarity between the preclustering of zones and the one or more clusters.
8. A controller for a building control system configured to operate equipment of the building control system, the controller comprising:
a zone identifier configured to identify a plurality of zones within a building;
a zone data collector configured to collect data associated with the plurality of zones within the building;
a zone grouping generator module configured to:
analyze the data collected by the zone data collector;
generate one or more zone groupings, each of the one or more zone groupings defining a plurality of zone groups and specifying which of the plurality of zones identified by the zone identifier are grouped together to form each of the plurality of zone groups; and
identify a particular zone grouping from the one or more zone groupings based on the data associated with the plurality of zones; and
a control signal generator configured to use the particular zone grouping determined by the zone grouping generator module to generate one or more control signals to operate equipment of the building control system to provide heating or cooling to the plurality of zones.
9. The controller of Claim 8, wherein the zone data collector is configured to collect data associated with the plurality of zones within the building, the data comprising at least one of:
one or more historical zone temperature set points of the plurality of zones;
one or more historical operating models of the plurality of zones; and
one or more energy consumption values of the plurality of zones.
10. The controller of Claim 8, wherein the zone grouping generator module is further
configured to:
block each type of data included in the data for each of the plurality of zones over a predetermined time period to generate a plurality of data blocks for each of the plurality of zones; and
select one or more key features associated with the plurality of data blocks.
11. The controller of Claim 8, wherein the controller further comprises a system
identification module configured to generate at least one system model based on the particular zone grouping.
12. The controller of Claim 8, wherein the zone grouping generator module is further
configured to generate one zone grouping that is the particular zone grouping defining a plurality of zone groups and specifying which of the plurality of zones are grouped together to form each of the plurality of zone groups.
13. The controller of Claim 8, wherein the zone grouping generator module is further
configured to:
select one or more clustering algorithms configured to identify one or more clusters comprising the data associated with the plurality of zones; and
generate the particular zone grouping based on the one or more clusters comprising the data associated with the plurality of zones.
14. The controller of Claim 13, wherein the zone grouping generator is further configured to:
precluster the plurality of zones into one or more clusters based on location data of the plurality of zones to generate a preclustering of zones comprising the plurality of zones; compare the preclustering of zones with the one or more clusters comprising the data associated with the plurality of zones to determine at least one similarity between the preclustering of zones and the one or more clusters; and
generate the particular zone grouping based on the at least one similarity between the preclustering of zones and the one or more clusters.
15. A method for operating equipment of a building control system to provide heating or cooling to a plurality of zones, the method comprising:
identifying the plurality of zones within a building;
analyzing data associated with the plurality of zones;
generating one or more zone groupings based on the data associated with the plurality of zones, each of the zone groupings defining a plurality of zone groups and specifying which of the plurality of zones are grouped together to form each of the plurality of zone groups;
identifying a particular zone grouping from the one or more zone groupings based on the data associated with the plurality of zones; and
using the particular zone grouping to generate one or more control signals configured to operate equipment of the building control system to provide heating or cooling to the plurality of zones.
16. The method of Claim 15, wherein analyzing the data associated with the plurality of zones comprises:
grouping each type of data included in the data for each of the plurality of zones over a predetermined time period to generate a plurality of data blocks for each of the plurality of zones; and
selecting one or more key features associated with the plurality of data blocks.
17. The method of Claim 15 further comprising performing system identification process to generate at least one system model based on the particular zone grouping.
18. The method of Claim 15 further comprising generating one zone grouping that is the particular zone grouping defining a plurality of zone groups and specifying which of the plurality of zones are grouped together to form each of the plurality of zone groups.
19. The method of Claim 15, wherein analyzing the data associated with the plurality of zones further comprises:
selecting one or more clustering algorithms to identify one or more clusters comprising the data associated with the plurality of zones; and
generating the particular zone grouping based on the one or more clusters comprising the data associated with the plurality of zones.
20. The method of Claim 19, wherein analyzing the data associated with the plurality of zones further comprises:
preclustering the plurality of zones into one or more clusters based on location data of the plurality of zones to generate a preclustering of zones comprising the plurality of zones;
comparing the preclustering of zones with the one or more clusters comprising the data associated with the plurality of zones to determine at least one similarity between the preclustering of zones and the one or more clusters; and
generating the particular zone grouping based on the at least one similarity between the preclustering of zones and the one or more clusters.
</claims>
</document>
