<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B65G1/02,B65G1/04,B65G1/137,B65G47/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TEAM CONVEYER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTIES, LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
GORMAN, JOHN G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72748929
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COORDINATED CONVEYERS IN AN AUTOMATED SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Coordinated conveyors in an automated system. In an embodiment, the system comprises transport conveyor(s) and storage conveyors, wherein each storage conveyor comprises a plurality of segments configured to hold at least one item, and a portion that is aligned with a portion of a transport conveyor, such that items are moveable from the storage conveyor to the transport conveyor. Software module(s), executed by a processor, receive an instruction to collect item(s) at a single destination location, and, for each of the item(s), identify a segment on a storage conveyor on which the item is held, control that storage conveyor to align the segment with the transport conveyor, move the item from the segment onto the transport conveyor, control the transport conveyor to align the item with the destination location, and move the item from the transport conveyor to the destination location.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A system comprising:
at least one transport conveyor;
a plurality of storage conveyors, wherein each of the plurality of storage conveyors comprises a plurality of segments configured to hold at least one item, and wherein each of the plurality of storage conveyors comprises a portion that is aligned with a portion of the at least one transport conveyor, such that items are moveable from the storage conveyor to the at least one transport conveyor;
at least one hardware processor; and
one or more software modules configured to, when executed by the at least one hardware processor,
receive an instruction to collect one or more items at a single destination location, and,
for each of the one or more items,
identify a segment on one of the plurality of storage conveyors on which the item is held,
control the one storage conveyor to align the identified segment with the at least one transport conveyor,
move the item from the identified segment onto the at least one transport conveyor,
control the at least one transport conveyor to align the item with the single destination location, and
move the item from the at least one transport conveyor to the single destination location.
2. The system of Claim 1, wherein each of a plurality of entities is associated with a place-time identifier, wherein the plurality of entities comprises all items within the system, and wherein each place-time identifier for each entity comprises:
a surface vector that identifies a relative location of the entity on a surface; and a time vector that identifies a time at which the entity is at the relative location identified in the surface vector.
3. The system of Claim 2, wherein the one or more software modules are configured to, for each of the items within the system, store each place-time identifier in association with its associated item, as the time vector changes, to create a log of every place time identifier associated with each of the items within the system from a time at which the item enters the system until a time at which the item exits the system.
4. The system of Claim 3, wherein the one or more software modules are configured to generate a measurement of an efficiency of the system based on the log.
5. The system of Claim 4, wherein the one or more software modules are configured to coordinate movement of the items within the system, based on the place-time identifiers associated with the items within the system, so as to optimize the measurement of efficiency.
6. The system of Claim 2, wherein each place-time identifier for each entity further comprises a component vector that indicates a component on which the surface is located.
7. The system of Claim 2, wherein each place-time identifier for each entity further comprises a ground vector that identifies a location of the entity relative to a ground underlying the system.
8. The system of Claim 7, wherein the one or more software modules are configured to store each place-time identifier in association with its associated entity, as the time vector and ground vector change over a period of time, to create a log of every place time identifier associated with each of the plurality of entities over the period of time.
9. The system of Claim 2, wherein each place-time identifier for each entity further comprises a what vector that identifies a type of the entity.
10. The system of Claim 2, wherein the plurality of entities further comprise all segments of the plurality of storage conveyors.
11. The system of Claim 2, wherein the one or more software modules are configured to determine the place-time identifier for each of the items within the system at a time at which the item is first stowed on one of the plurality of storage conveyors or the at least one transport conveyor.
12. The system of Claim 2, wherein the one or more software modules are configured to schedule movement of the items within the system based on the place-time identifiers associated with those items within the system.
13. The system of Claim 2, further comprising a plurality of processing stations, wherein each of the plurality of processing stations is configured to process an accessible item on at least one of the plurality of storage conveyors or at least one transport conveyor, and wherein the one or more software modules are configured to coordinate movement of a set of two or more items, stored on the plurality of storage conveyors, based on the place-time identifiers associated with the two or more items, such that each of the two or more items simultaneously become accessible to a respective one of the plurality of processing stations at a pre-scheduled time.
14. The system of Claim 1, wherein the at least one hardware processor is configured to independently control each of the at least one transport conveyor and the plurality of storage conveyors to move independently from each other.
15. The system of Claim 14, wherein each of the at least one transport conveyor and the plurality of storage conveyors are configured to move in two directions.
16. The system of Claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of storage conveyors is oriented to move in a direction that is orthogonal to a direction of movement of the portion of the at least one transport conveyor with which the storage conveyor is aligned.
17. The system of Claim 16, wherein each of the plurality of storage conveyors comprises a vertical loop, wherein a holding surface of each of the plurality of storage conveyors is positioned above a holding surface of the at least one transport conveyor, and wherein moving the item from the identified segment onto the at least one transport conveyor comprises moving the identified segment towards the at least one transport conveyor until the item drops off the one storage conveyor onto the at least one transport conveyor.
18. The system of Claim 17, further comprising a chute between the portion of each of the plurality of storage conveyors that is aligned with the portion of the at least one transport conveyor and the at least one transport conveyor, wherein dropping the item off the one storage conveyor onto the at least one transport conveyor comprises dropping the item into a chute that provides a downward slide path to the at least one transport conveyor.
19. The system of Claim 1, wherein the portion of each of the plurality of storage conveyors that is aligned with the portion of the at least one transport conveyor moves in a direction that is parallel to a direction of movement of the portion of the at least one transport conveyor with which the portion of the storage conveyor is aligned.
20. The system of Claim 19, wherein each of the plurality of storage conveyors comprises a horizontal loop, wherein a holding surface of each of the plurality of storage conveyors is positioned above a holding surface of the at least one transport conveyor, and wherein moving the item from the identified segment onto the at least one transport conveyor comprises pushing the item off the identified segment into a chute that provides a downward slide path towards the at least one transport conveyor.
21. The system of Claim 20, wherein moving the item from the identified segment onto the at least one transport conveyor further comprises:
waiting for the pushed item to slide into a bin at the end of the downward slide path; and
pushing the bin onto the holding surface of the at least one transport conveyor.
22. The system of Claim 1, wherein the at least one transport conveyor comprises a plurality of nested conveyors.
23. The system of Claim 1, wherein the plurality of storage conveyors are arranged into a plurality of separate storage systems, and wherein each of the plurality of separate storage systems comprises two or more of the plurality of storage conveyors.
24. The system of Claim 23, wherein each of the plurality of separate storage systems comprises at least one of the plurality of storage conveyors stacked over at least another one of the plurality of storage conveyors.
25. The system of Claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of storage conveyors is configured to move in two directions, and wherein the one or more software modules are configured to, when executed by the at least one hardware processor:
determine in which of the two directions to move the one storage conveyor so as to minimize movement; and
control the one storage conveyor to move in the determined direction.
26. The system of Claim 1, wherein the one storage conveyor comprises a cooling component that cools a holding surface of the one storage conveyor, and wherein the one or more software modules, when executed by the at least one processor, control the cooling component to cool the holding surface of the one storage conveyor.
27. The system of Claim 1, wherein the one storage conveyor comprises a warming component that warms a holding surface of the one storage conveyor, and wherein the one or more software modules, when executed by the at least one processor, control the warming component to warm the holding surface of the one storage conveyor.
28. The system of Claim 1, wherein an ambient temperature of the one storage conveyor is controllable, and wherein the one or more software modules, when executed by the at least one processor, control the ambient temperature of the one storage conveyor to maintain a temperature or remain within a temperature range.
29. The system of Claim 1, wherein each of the at least one transport conveyor and the plurality of storage conveyors is configured to stop at each of a plurality of indexed positions.
30. The system of Claim 1, further comprising one or more reading stations comprising a reader device configured to read a characteristic of an item held on a segment of at least one of the at least one transport conveyor or the plurality of storage conveyors.
31. The system of Claim 30, wherein the reader device comprises a camera configured to capture an image of a machine-readable indicium on the read item, and wherein the one or more software modules are configured to, when executed by the at least one hardware processor:
identify the read item from the image;
identify the segment on which the read item is held; and
map an identifier of the read item to an identifier of the identified segment.
32. The system of Claim 31, wherein the identifier of the identified segment comprises a surface vector that uniquely identify a location on a surface of the conveyor on which the read item is held, and wherein the one or more software modules are configured to, when executed by the at least one hardware processor, map the surface vector to a ground vector that uniquely identify a location of the identified segment within an automated system.
33. The system of Claim 1, further comprising one or more reading stations comprising a reader device configured to read a machine-readable indicium on a segment of at least one of the at least one transport conveyor or the plurality of storage conveyors, and wherein the one or more software modules are configured to:
identify the segment based on the read machine-readable indicium; and
determine a position of the identified segment based on a position of the reader device.
34. The system of Claim 1, wherein the system comprises:
a building that encloses the at least one transport conveyor and the plurality of storage conveyors; and
a destination system comprising a plurality of destination locations that are accessible to the at least one transport conveyor.
35 The system of Claim 34, wherein the destination system comprises a plurality of lockers as the plurality of destination locations.
36. The system of Claim 35, wherein the one or more software modules are further configured to, when executed by the at least one hardware processor:
receive the instruction to collect the one or more items from a web application via at least one network; and
provide an identifier of the locker corresponding to the single destination location to the web application via the at least one network.
37. The system of Claim 34, wherein the building comprises a forty-foot shipping container, and wherein the destination system is attachable to the shipping container and detachable from the shipping container.
38. The system of Claim 1, wherein the one or more software modules are configured to:
track every item within the system; and
automatically initiate restocking of each type of item, based on the tracking, by communicating with an external system of a supply chain.
39. A method comprising using at least one hardware processor, within an automated system that comprises at least one transport conveyor and a plurality of storage conveyors, each of the plurality of storage conveyors comprising a plurality of segments configured to hold at least one item, and each of the plurality of storage conveyors comprising a portion that is aligned with a portion of the at least one transport conveyor such that items are moveable from the storage conveyor to the at least one transport conveyor, to: receive an instruction to collect one or more items at a single destination location; and,
for each of the one or more items,
identify a segment on one of the plurality of storage conveyors on which the item is held,
control the one storage conveyor to align the identified segment with the at least one transport conveyor,
move the item from the identified segment onto the at least one transport conveyor,
control the at least one transport conveyor to align the item with the single destination location, and
move the item from the at least one transport conveyor to the single destination location.
40. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having instructions stored therein, wherein the instructions, when executed by a processor of an automated system that comprises at least one transport conveyor and a plurality of storage conveyors, each of the plurality of storage conveyors comprising a plurality of segments configured to hold at least one item, and each of the plurality of storage conveyors comprising a portion that is aligned with a portion of the at least one transport conveyor such that items are moveable from the storage conveyor to the at least one transport conveyor, cause the processor to:
receive an instruction to collect one or more items at a single destination location; and,
for each of the one or more items,
identify a segment on one of the plurality of storage conveyors on which the item is held,
control the one storage conveyor to align the identified segment with the at least one transport conveyor,
move the item from the identified segment onto the at least one transport conveyor, control the at least one transport conveyor to align the item with the single destination location, and
move the item from the at least one transport conveyor to the single destination location.
</claims>
</document>
