<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GM GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY OPERATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHANNON, JACQUELINE MARY
ENGLE, STEPHANIE OLIVIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68391681
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTEXTUAL AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE SUPPORT THROUGH WRITTEN INTERACTION
</title>

<abstract>
An autonomous vehicle including a sensor system that outputs a sensor signal indicative of a condition of the autonomous vehicle. The vehicle also includes a user interface device with a display. A computing system determines, based upon a profile of the passenger, that support is to be provided textually to the passenger when the support is provided to the passenger. The computing system further detects occurrence of an event that has been identified as potentially causing discomfort to the passenger. The computing system yet further sets a predefined support message defined in an account corresponding to the event maintained in a database prior to occurrence of the event as a support message to be presented to the passenger. The computing system additionally causes the display to present the support message textually, wherein the textual support message solicits feedback from the passenger of the autonomous vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. An autonomous vehicle, comprising:
a sensor system that is configured to output a sensor signal indicative of a condition of the autonomous vehicle;
a user interface device that presents a user interface to a passenger of the autonomous vehicle, wherein the user interface device includes a display; and
a computing system that is in communication with the sensor system and the user interface device, wherein the computing system comprises:
a processor; and
memory that stores computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform acts comprising:
determining, based upon a profile of the passenger, that support is to be provided textually to the passenger when the support is provided to the passenger;
detecting occurrence of an event based upon the sensor signal output by the sensor system, wherein the event has been identified as potentially causing discomfort to the passenger;
responsive to detecting the occurrence of the event, setting a predefined support message associated with the event as a support message to be presented to the passenger, wherein the predefined support message is defined in an account corresponding to the event maintained in a database prior to the occurrence of the event; and
causing, in accordance with the profile of the passenger, the display to present the support message textually, wherein the textual support message solicits feedback from the passenger of the autonomous vehicle.
2. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, the acts further comprising:
responsive to receiving the feedback from the passenger, causing the display to present a textual response support message, wherein content of the textual support message is based on the feedback from the passenger.
3. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, wherein the predefined support message comprises predefined content selectable by the passenger to enter into the user interface device while requesting support.
4. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, wherein the account corresponding to the event comprises a plurality of predefined support messages.
5. The autonomous vehicle of claim 4, wherein setting the predefined support message as the support message to be presented to the passenger comprises setting the plurality of predefined support messages as a plurality of support messages to be presented to the passenger, wherein causing the display to present the support message textually comprises causing the display to present the plurality of support messages textually.
6. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, the acts further comprising:
responsive to receiving the feedback from the passenger, establishing a
communication channel between the autonomous vehicle and an interface device operated by a support agent.
7. The autonomous vehicle of claim 6, the acts further comprising:
causing the display to present a chat box which shows textually a written chat session exchanged over the communication channel between the passenger and the support agent.
8. The autonomous vehicle of claim 6, wherein the support agent is selected based upon at least one of the profile of the passenger or content of the feedback.
9. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, wherein the display comprises a touchscreen, wherein the passenger provides the feedback by touching a portion of the touchscreen displaying the textual support message.
10. A method compri sing :
determining, based upon a profile of a passenger of an autonomous vehicle, that support is to be provided textually to the passenger when the support is provided to the passenger;
detecting occurrence of an event based upon sensor signal output from a sensor system in the autonomous vehicle, wherein the sensor signal output is indicative of a condition of the autonomous vehicle, wherein the event has been identified as potentially causing discomfort to the passenger;
responsive to detecting the occurrence of the event, setting a predefined support message associated with the event as a support message to be presented to the passenger, wherein the predefined support message is defined in an account corresponding to the event maintained in a database prior to the occurrence of the event; and causing, in accordance with the profile of the passenger, a display to present the support message textually, wherein the textual support message solicits feedback from the passenger of the autonomous vehicle.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising:
receiving the feedback from the passenger, wherein the display comprises a touchscreen, wherein the feedback comprises the passenger touching a portion of the touchscreen presenting the textual support message.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising:
responsive to receiving the feedback from the passenger, causing the display to present a textual response support message, wherein content of the textual response support message is based on the feedback from the passenger.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising:
responsive to receiving the feedback from the passenger, establishing a
communication channel between the autonomous vehicle and an interface device operated by a support agent.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising:
responsive to establishing the communication channel, causing the display to present a chat box configured to textually display communication exchanged over the communication channel between the passenger and the support agent.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the account corresponding to the event comprises a plurality of predefined support messages, wherein setting the predefined support message as the support message to be presented to the passenger comprises setting the plurality of predefined support messages as a plurality of support messages to be presented to the passenger, wherein causing the display to present the support message textually comprises causing the display to present the plurality of support messages textually.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
receiving the feedback from the passenger, wherein the display comprises a touchscreen, wherein the feedback comprises the passenger touching a portion of the touchscreen presenting one textual support message of the plurality of textual support messages.
17. The method of claim 10, further comprising:
responsive to receiving the feedback from the passenger, controlling at least one of a vehicle propulsion system, a braking system, or a steering system to control physical condition of the autonomous vehicle based on the received feedback.
18. A computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform acts comprising:
determining, based upon a profile of a passenger of an autonomous vehicle, that support is to be provided textually to the passenger when the support is provided to the passenger;
detecting occurrence of an event based upon sensor signal output from a sensor system in the autonomous vehicle, wherein the sensor signal output is indicative of a condition of the autonomous vehicle, wherein the event has been identified as potentially causing discomfort to the passenger;
responsive to detecting the occurrence of the event, setting a predefined support message associated with the event as a support message to be presented to the passenger, wherein the predefined support message is defined in an account corresponding to the event maintained in a database prior to the occurrence of the event; and
causing, in accordance with the profile of the passenger, a display to present the support message textually, wherein the textual support message solicits feedback from the passenger of the autonomous vehicle.
19. The computing-readable storage medium of claim 18, the acts further comprising: responsive to receiving the feedback from the passenger, causing the display to present a textual response support message, wherein content of the textual response support message is based on the feedback from the passenger.
20. The computing-readable storage medium of claim 18, the acts further comprising: responsive to receiving the feedback from the passenger, establishing a communication channel between the autonomous vehicle and an interface device operated by a support agent
</claims>
</document>
