<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARNETT, DONALD A.
DONSBACH, AARON MICHAEL
KARAM, DAVID
VAYVOD, ANTON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63998788
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PERFORMING A REWIND OPERATION WITH A MOBILE IMAGE CAPTURE DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A mobile image capture device is provided that can include an image capture system operable to capture image frames and be configured to: provide a live video stream for display in a viewfinder portion of a user interface that depicts at least a portion of a current field of view of the image capture system; store a video segment from the live video stream in a temporary image buffer that includes a plurality of image frames captured by the image capture system; receive a user input that is directed to the viewfinder portion of the user interface that requests a rewind operation; and, in response to such user input, perform the rewind operation in the viewfinder portion of the user interface with respect to the video segment in which at least two of the image frames of the video segment can be provided for display in the user interface in a reverse chronological order.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A mobile image capture device, comprising:
an image capture system operable to capture image frames;
one or more processors; and
one or more non-transitory computer-readable media that store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising:
providing a live video stream for display in a viewfinder portion of a user interface, the live video stream depicting at least a portion of a current field of view of the image capture system of the mobile image capture device;
storing a video segment from the live video stream in a temporary image buffer, wherein the video segment comprises a plurality of image frames captured by the image capture system;
receiving a user input that is directed to the viewfinder portion of the user interface and that requests a rewind operation; and
in response to receipt of the user input that requests the rewind operation, performing the rewind operation in the viewfinder portion of the user interface with respect to the video segment, wherein during the rewind operation at least two of the image frames of the video segment are provided for display in the user interface in a reverse chronological order.
2. The mobile image capture device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise:
receiving a user selection of one of the image frames; and
storing the selected image frame into a non-temporary memory location.
3. The mobile image capture device of claim 1, wherein:
the user input has a speed; and
performing the rewind operation comprises transitioning the user interface between display of a first image frame of the video segment to display of at least a second image frame of the video segment at a speed that is positively correlated to the speed of the user input.
4. The mobile image capture device of claim 1, wherein the video segment from the live video stream is stored in the temporary image buffer in a first-in-first-out (FIFO) configuration associated with a moving time window.
5. The mobile image capture device of claim 1, further comprising a touch-sensitive display screen that displays the user interface, and wherein the user input comprises a user touch action with respect to the touch-sensitive display screen.
6. The mobile image capture device of claim 5, wherein performing the rewind operation comprises performing a scrubbing operation in response to movement of the user input.
7. The mobile image capture device of claim 1, wherein the operations comprise displaying a rewind strip during the rewind operation.
8. The mobile image capture device of claim 1, wherein the live video stream comprises a composite environmental stream generated from a plurality of live video streams.
9. The mobile image capture device of claim 1, wherein performing the rewind operation comprises providing the video segment for display in the user interface in a reverse chronological order.
10. The mobile image capture device of claim 1, further comprising a machinelearned image selection model configured to receive the plurality of image frames of the video segment, and, in response to receipt of the plurality of image frames, output a frame selection set that describes a selection of at least one of the plurality of image frames, and wherein the operations further comprise:
inputting the plurality of image frames of the video segment into the machine-learned image selection model; receiving, as an output of the machine-learned image selection model, the frame selection set; and
providing a selection suggestion for display in the user interface, the selection suggestion including at least one of the image frames described by the frame selection set.
11. The mobile image capture device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise:
receiving a user input that requests the live video stream switch from a first source to a second source; and
in response to receipt of the user input that requests the live video stream to switch from the first source to the second source, switching the live video stream from the first source to the second source.
12. The mobile image capture device of claim 1, wherein the video segment is automatically stored from the live video stream in the temporary image buffer as soon as a camera application is opened.
13. The mobile image capture device of claim 12, the camera application is operable in at least an image capture mode and a video capture mode, and wherein video segment is automatically stored from the live video stream when the camera application is in the image capture mode or the video capture mode.
14. A mobile image capture device, comprising:
an image capture system operable to capture image frames from a plurality of sources, each source having a respective field of view;
one or more processors; and
one or more non-transitory computer-readable media that store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising:
providing a live video stream for display in a viewfinder portion of a user interface, the live video stream comprising a composite environmental stream generated from the plurality of sources; storing a video segment from the live video stream in a temporary image buffer, wherein the video segment comprises a plurality of image frames captured by the image capture system;
receiving a user input that is directed to the viewfinder portion of the user interface and that requests a rewind operation; and
in response to receipt of the user input that requests the rewind operation, performing a rewind operation in the viewfinder portion of the user interface with respect to the video segment, wherein during the rewind operation at least two of the image frames of the video segment are provided for display in a user interface in a reverse chronological order.
15. The mobile image capture device of claim 14, wherein:
providing the live video stream for display in the viewfinder portion of the user interface comprises displaying a primary live video stream and a secondary live video stream, the primary live video stream displayed larger than the secondary live video stream;
displaying the primary live video stream comprises displaying images from a first source of the plurality of sources; and
displaying the secondary live video stream comprises displaying images from a second source of the plurality of sources.
16. The mobile image capture device of claim 14, wherein:
providing the live video stream for display in the viewfinder portion of the user interface comprises displaying a primary live video stream larger than a secondary live video stream; and
displaying the primary live video stream comprises automatically switching between displaying images from a first source of the plurality of sources to displaying images from a second source of the plurality of sources.
17. The mobile image capture device of claim 16, wherein the first source of the plurality of sources comprises a front-facing camera, and wherein the second source of the plurality of sources comprises a rearward-facing camera.
18. A method for performing a rewind operation, the method comprising: providing, by one or more computing devices, a live video stream for display in a viewfinder portion of a user interface, the live video stream depicting at least a portion of a current field of view of an image capture system;
storing, by the one or more computing devices, a video segment from the live video stream in a temporary image buffer, wherein the video segment comprises a plurality of image frames captured by the image capture system;
receiving, by the one or more computing devices, a user input that is directed to the viewfinder portion of the user interface and that requests a rewind operation; and
in response to receipt of the user input that requests the rewind operation, performing, by the one or more computing devices, the rewind operation in the viewfinder portion of the user interface with respect to the video segment, wherein during the rewind operation at least two of the image frames of the video segment are provided for display in the user interface in a reverse chronological order.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising:
receiving, by the one or more computing devices, a user selection of one of the image frames; and storing, by the one or more computing devices, the selected image frame into a non temporary memory location.
20. The method of claim 18, performing the rewind operation comprises transitioning the user interface between display of a first image frame of the video segment to display of at least a second image frame of the video segment at a speed that is positively correlated to a speed of the user input.
</claims>
</document>
