<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H20/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZOE GLOBAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAVIES, RICHARD JAMES
HADJIGEORGIOU, GEORGE
WOLF, JONATHAN THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69587290
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMPROVING THE ACCURACY OF TEST DATA OUTSIDE THE CLINIC
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed herein for improving the accuracy of test data obtained outside of a clinical setting. Using the technologies described herein, different techniques can be utilized to analyze, score and adjust test data associated with one or more 'at home' tests. In some examples, computing systems are utilized to generate quality scores indicating the accuracy of the test data associated with a particular biomarker. In other examples, an authorized user, such as a data manager can analyze the test data utilizing a user interface to generate scores and/or adjust the test data.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method, comprising:
receiving test data associated with performance of one or more tests in a non-clinical setting, wherein the one or more tests are associated with an identification of one or more nutritional responses;
determining an accuracy of the test data; and
causing, based, at least in part, on the accuracy of the test data, performance of one or more of the following actions:
confirming the test data;
generating one or more of a quality score or a classification for the test data; adjusting at least a portion of the test data; or
adjusting a weighting associated with a machine learning mechanism.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the test data comprises receiving one or more of food data or biome data associated with the individual, wherein the food data indicates one or more foods consumed by an individual to evoke a nutritional response.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein generating the one or more of the quality score or the classification comprises performing one or more of: generating a food data score that provides an indication of a quality of the food data received; generating a biome data score that provides an indication of a quality of the biome data; generating a device test data score that provides an indication of a quality of the device test data captured by an electronic device, or generating a lab test data score that provides an indication of a quality of the lab test data.
4. The method of any preceding claim, wherein determining the accuracy of the test data comprises identifying one or more of a food classification error, a food quantity estimation error, or a food timing error.
5. The method of any preceding claim, wherein determining the accuracy of the test data comprises generating a score for the test data, wherein the score provides an indication of the accuracy of the test data, and wherein generating the score comprises one or more of applying a machine learning mechanism to the test data to generate test accuracy data or receiving the test result data from an input device associated with an authorized user.
6. The method of any preceding claim, further comprising generating a graphical user interface that includes user interface elements associated with the test data, causing the graphical user interface to be presented on a display, and receiving adjusted data in response to an interaction with one or more of the user interface elements.
7. The method of any preceding claim, wherein determining the accuracy comprises utilizing a machine learning mechanism.
8. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the test data includes data obtained from a plurality of individuals.
9. The method of any preceding claim, further comprising generating one or more of a recommendation or a prediction using at least a portion of the test data that has been adjusted.
10. A system, comprising:
a data ingestion service, including one or more processors, configured to
receive test data associated with performance of one or more tests in a non-clinical setting, wherein the one or more tests is associated with an identification of one or more nutritional responses;
determine an accuracy of the test data; and
cause, based, at least in part, on the accuracy of the test data, one or more actions to be performed, the actions including to:
confirm the test data;
generate an indication of quality for the test data;
adjust at least a portion of the test data; or
adjust a machine learning mechanism.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein receiving the test data comprises receiving food data and biome date, wherein the food data indicates one or more foods consumed by one or more individuals to evoke a nutritional response.
12. The system of claim 10 or 11, wherein generating the indication of quality comprises one or more of: generating a food data score that provides an indication of a quality of food data received; generating a biome data score that provides an indication of a quality of biome data associated with the individual; generating a device test data score that provides an indication of a quality of device test data captured by an electronic device, or generating a lab test data score that provides an indication of a quality of lab test data.
13. The system of any of the claims 10-12, wherein determining the accuracy of the test data comprises generating a score for the test data, wherein the score provides an indication of the accuracy of the test data, and wherein generating the score comprises performing one or more of a applying a machine learning mechanism to the test data to generate test accuracy data or receiving the test result data from an input device associated with an authorized user.
14. The system of any of the claims 10-13, wherein the data ingestion service is further configured to generate a user interface, cause the user interface to be presented, and receive adjusted data in response to an interaction with the user interface.
15. The system of any of the claims 10-14, wherein determining the accuracy comprises utilizing a machine learning mechanism and wherein the test data includes data from a plurality of individuals.
16. The system of any of the claims 10-15, further comprising a service configured to generate on or more of a recommendation or a prediction using at least a portion of the test data that has been adjusted.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereupon which, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to:
receive test data associated with performance of one or more tests in a non-clinical setting, wherein the one or more tests is associated with an identification of one or more nutritional responses;
determine an accuracy of the test data; and
cause, based, at least in part, on the accuracy of the test data, one or more actions to be performed, the actions including to:
confirm the test data;
generate one or more quality indications for the test data;
adjust at least a portion of the test data; or
adjust a machine learning mechanism.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein receiving the test data comprises receiving one or more of food data, wherein the food data indicates one or more foods consumed by an individual to evoke a nutritional response, biome data associated with the individual, device test data captured by one or more electronic devices configured to measure one or more biological markers, or lab test data provided to one or more labs for analysis.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17 or 18, wherein generating the one or more quality indications comprises one or more of: generating a food data score that provides an indication of a quality of food data received; generating a biome data score that provides an indication of a quality of biome data associated with the individual; generating a device test data score that provides an indication of a quality of device test data captured by an electronic device, or generating a lab test data score that provides an indication of a quality of lab test data.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of any of the claims 17-19, wherein determining the accuracy of the test data comprises receiving data from a user interface associated with one or user, and receiving data from a machine learning mechanism.
</claims>
</document>
