<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A45C11/00,G06Q10/00,G06Q20/20,G07F9/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JOHNSON & JOHNSON VISION CARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
VOSS, LESLIE A.
KERNICK, EDWARD, R.
LEE, KYUNGMIN ANDY
TAWFIK, AHMED
SCOLARO, James
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71078544
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED PRODUCT LOCKER FOR INVENTORY CONTROL
</title>

<abstract>
An example automated product locker is described herein. The automated product locker can include a housing and a drawer configured to be slidably stowable within the housing. The drawer can define a storage area configured to receive a product. The automated product locker can include a plurality of visual indicators configured to indicate respective positions of respective units of the product within the storage area, and a machine vision system configured to capture information about the product. The machine vision system can include an optical device. Additionally, the automated product locker can include a controller operably coupled to the machine vision system. The controller can be configured to inventory the product based, at least in part, on the information about the product, and cause one or more of the visual indicators that are associated with a desired unit of the product to actuate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An automated product locker, comprising:
a housing;
a drawer configured to be slidably stowable within the housing, the drawer defining a storage area configured to receive a product;
a plurality of visual indicators configured to indicate respective positions of respective units of the product within the storage area;
a machine vision system arranged within the housing and configured to capture information about the product, the machine vision system comprising an optical device; and
a controller arranged within the housing and operably coupled to the machine vision system, the controller comprising a processor and a memory, the memory having computer-executable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the controller to:
inventory the product based, at least in part, on the information about the product; and cause one or more of the visual indicators that are associated with a desired unit of the product to actuate.
2. The automated product locker of claim 1, wherein the drawer comprises an external face, and wherein at least one of the visual indicators is arranged on or adjacent to the external face.
3. The automated product locker of claim 1, wherein the drawer further comprises a plurality of partitions arranged within the storage area, and wherein a respective set of the visual indicators is arranged along each of the partitions.
4. The automated product locker of claim 3, wherein the drawer further comprises a plurality of trays configured to receive the product, wherein each of the trays is arranged between adjacent partitions.
5. The automated product locker of claim 4, wherein each of the trays includes a plurality of slots for receiving units of the product.
6. The automated product locker of claim 1, wherein the memory has further computerexecutable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the controller to transmit an inventory of the product over a network to a remote system.
7. The automated product locker of claim 6, wherein the remote system comprises a database.
8. The automated product locker of claim 1, wherein the optical device is a barcode scanner.
9. The automated product locker of claim 8, wherein inventorying the product based, at least in part, on the information about the product comprises:
reading respective product identifiers associated with respective units of the product;
decoding the respective product identifiers associated with the respective units of the product; and
using the respective product identifiers, associating the respective units of the product with the respective positions within the storage area.
10. The automated product locker of claim 9, wherein each of the respective product identifiers is a one-dimensional (ID) barcode, a universal product code (UPC), or a stock keeping unit (SKU).
11. The automated product locker of claim 1, wherein the optical device is an imaging device.
12. The automated product locker of claim 11, wherein the machine vision system further comprises a light reflecting device configured to direct light reflected from a portion of the storage area to the imaging device.
13. The automated product locker of claim 12, wherein the imaging device and the light reflecting device are arranged at opposite sides of the drawer.
14. The automated product locker of claim 11, wherein inventorying the product based, at least in part, on the information about the product comprises:
receiving images of the product captured by the imaging device;
analyzing the images of the product to identify respective product identifiers associated with respective units of the product;
decoding the respective product identifiers associated with the respective units of the product; and
using the respective product identifiers, associating the respective units of the product with the respective positions within the storage area.
15. The automated product locker of claim 14, wherein each of the respective product identifiers is a one-dimensional (ID) barcode, a two-dimensional (2D) barcode, a three-dimensional (3D) barcode, a universal product code (UPC), a stock keeping unit (SKU), text, or a graphic.
16. The automated product locker of claim 14, wherein inventorying the product based, at least in part, on the information about the product further comprises analyzing the images of the product to identify one or more of the respective positions within the storage area associated with a missing, unrecognized, or unreadable product identifier.
17. The automated product locker of claim 16, wherein the memory has further computerexecutable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the controller to determine, using a machine learning algorithm, whether the one or more of the respective positions within the storage area associated with the missing, unrecognized, or unreadable product identifier contain a unit of the product.
18. The automated product locker of claim 14, wherein inventorying the product based, at least in part, on the information about the product further comprises analyzing the images of the product to determine, using a machine learning algorithm, a source of each of the respective units of the product.
19. The automated product locker of claim 14, wherein inventorying the product based, at least in part, on the information about the product further comprises cropping a portion of the images of the product, and wherein the cropped portion of the images is analyzed to identify the respective product identifiers associated with the respective units of the product.
20. The automated product locker of claim 14, wherein the memory has further computerexecutable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the controller to store the images of the product in the memory.
21. The automated product locker of claim 14, wherein the memory has further computerexecutable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the controller to transmit the images of the product over a network to a remote system.
22. The automated product locker of claim 1, wherein the memory has further computerexecutable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the controller to initiate the machine vision system in response to a movement of the drawer.
23. The automated product locker of claim 22, wherein the movement of the drawer is withdrawal of the drawer from the housing followed by return of the drawer into the housing.
24. The automated product locker of claim 22, further comprising a position detector configured to sense a position of the drawer relative to the housing.
25. The automated product locker of claim 24, wherein the position detector is a throughbeam photoelectric sensor.
26. The automated product locker of claim 22, further comprising a position strip including machine readable code arranged within the drawer, wherein the machine vision system is further configured to capture information about the position strip, and wherein the memory has further computer-executable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the controller to detect the movement of the drawer based, at least in part, on the information about the position strip.
27. The automated product locker of claim 1, wherein the memory has further computerexecutable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the controller to receive a request for the desired unit of the product.
28. The automated product locker of claim 27, wherein the memory has further computerexecutable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the controller to: transmit the request for the desired unit of the product over a network to a remote system; and receive a response from the remote system, the response including a position of the desired unit of product within the storage area.
29. The automated product locker of claim 28, wherein the remote system comprises a database.
30. The automated product locker of claim 1, wherein the memory has further computerexecutable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the controller to provide an alarm in response to a condition of the drawer.
31. The automated product locker of claim 1, further comprising a power supply arranged in the housing.
32. The automated product locker of claim 1, further comprising a locking device arranged in the housing and configured to secure the drawer.
33. The automated product locker of claim 1, wherein the machine vision system comprises a single optical device.
34. The automated product locker of claim 1, further comprising:
a plurality of drawers, each of the drawers being configured to be slidably stowable within the housing; and
a plurality of machine vision systems arranged within the housing, wherein a respective one of the machine vision systems corresponds to a respective one of the drawers.
35. The automated product locker of claim 1, wherein each of the visual indicators is at least one of a light emitter or a graphical display.
36. The automated product locker of claim 1, wherein each of the respective units of the product is a product package.
37. The automated product locker of claim 36, wherein the product package includes one or more contact lenses.
38. The automated product locker of claim 1, wherein at least one of the visual indicators is configured display a first user indication associated with a first user and a second user indication associated with a second user, wherein first user indication and the second user indication may be selected from an icon, image, or a color associated with a particular user.
39. A system, comprising:
a client device;
a remote system; and
the automated product locker of claim 1, wherein the client device, the remote system, and the automated product locker are operably coupled via a network.
</claims>
</document>
