<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B7/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUALCOMM
</assignee>

<inventors>
LUO, TAO
LI, JUNYI
WANG HUA
CEZANNE, JUERGEN
RAGHAVAN, VASANTHAN
RYU, JUNG HO
BAI, TIANYANG
VENUGOPAL, KIRAN
RAVID, KOBI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71945696
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BEAM MANAGEMENT USING CHANNEL STATE INFORMATION PREDICTION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and devices for wireless communications are described. A user equipment (UE) may transmit, to a base station such as a eNodeB (eNB), a next-generation NodeB or giga-NodeB (either of which may be referred to as a gNB)), an indication of a value of a channel quality parameter of a wireless link including a first beam pair between the UE and the base station. The UE may also transmit, to the base station, side information different from and in addition to the indication of the value of the channel quality information, and receive, in response to the transmitted indication of the value and the transmitted side information, an indication of resources for the UE to use to communicate on the wireless link.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for wireless communications at a user equipment (UE), comprising:
transmitting, to a base station, an indication of a value of a channel quality parameter of a wireless link comprising a first beam pair between the UE and the base station;
transmitting, to the base station, side information different from and in addition to the indication of the value of the channel quality parameter; and
receiving, in response to the transmitted indication of the value and the transmitted side information, an indication of resources for the UE to use to communicate on the wireless link.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein transmitting the side information comprises:
identifying an event trigger has occurred; and
transmitting the side information to the base station at least in part in response to the identified event trigger.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving, from the base station, an indication of a future value of the channel quality parameter of the wireless link;
comparing the indicated future value to an actual value of the channel quality parameter; and
transmitting, to the base station, a report identifying a result of the comparing.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the base station determined the future value based at least in part on the transmitted side information and the transmitted indication of the value.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising: determining, based at least in part on the comparing, that a difference between the indicated future value and the value is greater than or equal to a threshold value, the report transmitted in response to the determining.
6. The method of claim 3, further comprising:
receiving, from the base station, a request for the UE to transmit the report, the report transmitted by the UE in response to the received request.
7. The method of claim 3, further comprising:
determining, by the UE, an updated value for the channel quality parameter based at least in part on the comparing, the report comprising the updated value.
8. The method of claim 3, further comprising:
measuring, by the UE, the channel quality parameter for the wireless link to determine the actual value of the channel quality parameter.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving, from the base station, an indication of a future value of the channel quality parameter of the wireless link determined by the base station;
comparing the indicated future value to an actual value of the channel quality parameter; and
refraining from transmitting, to the base station, a report identifying a result of the comparing based at least in part on determining that a difference between the indicated future value and the actual value is less than or equal to a threshold value.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
identifying an algorithm used by the base station to determine a future value of the channel quality parameter of the wireless link, the algorithm dependent on one or more parameters.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the side information comprises UE mobility information, or a Doppler spread, or an indication of past receive beam changes by the UE, or a combination thereof.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a time stamp for the value of the channel quality parameter, wherein the transmitted side information indicates the identified time stamp.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the indication of resources comprises:
receiving a request to switch from using the first beam pair to using a second beam pair, the second beam pair comprising a different transmit beam, or a different receive beam, or a combination thereof, than the first beam pair.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the indication of resources comprises:
receiving a grant of the resources in response to the transmitted indication of the value and the transmitted side information.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
measuring the value of the channel quality parameter, wherein the value of the channel quality parameter comprises the measured value.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the side information comprises a time stamp for the measuring of the value.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the side information further comprises an indication of a duration for which the side information is valid.
18. A method for wireless communications at a base station, comprising: receiving, from a user equipment (UE), an indication of a value of a channel quality parameter of a wireless link comprising a first beam pair between the UE and the base station;
receiving, from the UE, side information different from and in addition to the indication of the value of the channel quality parameter;
determining, based at least in part on the value of the channel quality parameter and the received side information, a future value of the channel quality parameter;
determining, based at least in part on the determined future value of the channel quality parameter, resources for the UE to use to communicate with the base station on the wireless link; and transmitting, to the UE, an indication of the determined resources.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein determining the future value of the channel quality parameter comprises:
determining the future value of the channel quality parameter from the received value using a linear filter based at least in part on the received side information.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein transmitting the indication of resources comprises:
transmitting a request for the UE to switch from using the first beam pair to using a second beam pair, the second beam pair comprising a different transmit beam, or a different receive beam, or a combination thereof, than the first beam pair.
21. The method of claim 18, further comprising:
transmitting, to the UE, an indication of the determined future value; and receiving, from the UE, a report identifying a result of a comparison of the indicated future value to an actual value of the channel quality parameter.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising:
transmitting, to the UE, a request for the UE to transmit the report, the report transmitted by the UE in response to the request.
23. The method of claim 18, wherein transmitting the indication of resources comprises:
transmitting, to the UE, a grant identifying the determined resources.
24. The method of claim 18, further comprising:
receiving, from the UE, an indication of a recommended value for one or more parameters associated with an algorithm used by the base station to determine the future value of the channel quality parameter.
25. The method of claim 18, wherein the side information comprises UE mobility information, or a Doppler spread, or an indication of past receive beam changes by the UE, or a combination thereof.
26. The method of claim 18, further comprising: identifying a timing associated with the value of the channel quality parameter, the timing comprising a time stamp for the value of the channel quality parameter in the side information received from the UE.
27. The method of claim 18, further comprising:
identifying, by the base station, a timing associated with the value of the channel quality parameter based at least in part on a measurement configuration of the UE known to the base station, wherein the time stamp indicates a time at which the UE measured the value of the channel quality parameter.
28. The method of claim 18, wherein the side information further comprises an indication of a duration for which the side information is valid.
29. An apparatus for wireless communications at a user equipment (UE), comprising:
means for transmitting, to a base station, an indication of a value of a channel quality parameter of a wireless link comprising a first beam pair between the UE and the base station;
means for transmitting, to the base station, side information different from and in addition to the indication of the value of the channel quality parameter; and
means for receiving, in response to the transmitted indication of the value and the transmitted side information, an indication of resources for the UE to use to communicate on the wireless link.
30. An apparatus for wireless communications at a base station, comprising:
means for receiving, from a user equipment (UE), an indication of a value of a channel quality parameter of a wireless link comprising a first beam pair between the UE and the base station;
means for receiving, from the UE, side information different from and in addition to the indication of the value of the channel quality parameter;
means for determining, based at least in part on the value of the channel quality parameter and the received side information, a future value of the channel quality parameter; means for determining, based at least in part on the determined future value of the channel quality parameter, resources for the UE to use to communicate with the base station on the wireless link; and
means for transmitting, to the UE, an indication of the determined resources.
</claims>
</document>
