<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N30/72
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WYATT TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAY, VIVIANNA
JARRETT, JEREMY
LARKIN, MICHAEL
MAURER, BARBARA
MINNE, STEPHEN
RAMINI, SHIVA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70551197
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INDICATING A STATUS OF AN ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENT ON A SCREEN OF THE ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENT
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure describes a method, a system, and a computer program product of indicating a status of an analytical instrument on a screen of the analytical instrument. In an embodiment, the method, the system, and the computer program product include receiving data from an analytical instrument monitoring a liquid sample, segmenting the received data into data segments for at least two characteristics of at least one of the instrument, the sample, and an operating environment of the instrument, analyzing each of the data segments for the at least two characteristics, retrieving threshold values for the at least two characteristics from a computer data source, calculating at least one status of at least one of the instrument, the sample, and the operating environment, with respect to the analyzed data segments and the threshold values, and displaying the at least one status on a display of the instrument.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer implemented method comprising:
receiving, by a computer system, data from at least one analytical instrument monitoring at least one liquid sample;
executing, by the computer system, a set of logical operations segmenting the received data into data segments for at least two characteristics of at least one of the at least one instrument, the at least one sample, and at least one operating environment of the at least one instrument;
executing, by the computer system, a set of logical operations analyzing each of the data segments for the at least two characteristics, resulting in analyzed data segments;
retrieving, by the computer system, threshold values for the at least two characteristics from a computer data source;
calculating, by the computer system, at least one status of at least one of the at least one instrument, the at least one sample, and the at least one operating environment, with respect to the analyzed data segments and the threshold values; and
displaying, by the computer system, the at least one status on at least one display of the at least one instrument.
2. The method of claim 1
wherein the at least one instrument comprises a multi-angle light scattering instrument, and
wherein the received data indicates time-varying light levels of scattered light,
wherein the light levels are derived from at least one measurement of the at least one sample by the multi-angle light scattering instrument.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the received data comprises time-varying light level readings from at least a 90-degree photodiode of the multi-angle light scattering instrument.
4. The method of claim 2 wherein the received data comprises time-varying light level readings from at least a 0-degree photodiode of the multi-angle light scattering instrument.
5. The method of claim 1
wherein the at least one instrument comprises a multi-angle light scattering instrument, and
wherein the received data indicates electrical noise from the multi-angle light scattering instrument.
6. The method of claim 1
wherein the at least one instrument comprises a differential refractometer, and wherein the received data indicates time-varying differential refractive index values, wherein the differential refractive index values are derived from at least one measurement of the at least one sample by the differential refractometer.
7. The method of claim 1
wherein the at least one instrument comprises a viscometer, and
wherein the received data indicates time-varying differential pressure values,
wherein the differential pressure values are derived from at least one measurement of the at least one sample by the viscometer. 8 The method of claim 1
wherein one of the at least two characteristics represents a phenomenon selected from the group consisting of noise, wander, and drift, and
wherein the data segments comprise
0-second to 30-second data segments in response to the phenomenon being noise, 30-second to 5 -minute data segments in response to the phenomenon being wander, and
5-minute to n-minute data segments in response to the phenomenon being drift, wherein n is a number less than or equal tolO.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein the analyzing comprises at least one of
comparing, by the computer system, the data segments to at least one of noise amplitude values and noise slope values, resulting in the analyzed data segments indicating noise,
comparing, by the computer system, the data segments to at least one of wander amplitude values and wander slope values, resulting in the analyzed data segments indicating wander, and
comparing, by the computer system, the data segments to at least one of drift slope values and drift amplitude values, resulting in the analyzed data segments indicating drift.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein the displaying comprises:
displaying a first graphical user interface object in response to the at least one status being a good status;
displaying a second graphical user interface object in response to the at least one status being an intermediate status; and
displaying a third graphical user interface object in response to the at least one status being a bad status.
11. The method of claim 1 further comprising executing, by the computer system, a set of logical operations changing at least one state of the at least one instrument with respect to the at least one status.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein the changing comprises
activating a cleaning system to clean the at least one instrument in response to the at least one status being at least one of an intermediate status and a bad status,
wherein the at least two characteristics represent noise and wander.
13. The method of claim 11 wherein the changing comprises
activating a purging system to purge the at least one sample from the at least one instrument in response to the at least one status being at least one of an intermediate status and a bad status,
wherein one of the at least two characteristics represents drift.
14. The method of claim 11 wherein the changing comprises activating a purging system to purge the at least one sample from the at least one instrument in response to the at least one status being a bad status,
wherein one of the at least two characteristics represents a signal from a forward monitor sensor.
15. The method of claim 1 further comprising transmitting status data to at least one data sink, wherein the status data indicates the at least one status, and
wherein the at least one data sink is selected from the group consisting of a telephone, a computer system, a computer database, a computer display, and a logic circuit.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein the status data comprises at least one of visual data, textual data, audio data, tactile data, olfactory data, and gustatory data.
17. The method of claim 16
wherein the visual data comprises information to render on another display
a first graphical user interface object in response to the at least one status being a good status,
a second graphical user interface object in response to the at least one status being an intermediate status, and
a third graphical user interface object in response to the at least one status being a bad status, and
wherein the textual data comprises at least one of at least one electronic mail message and at least one electronic text message.
18. The method of claim 1 wherein the received data indicates at least one alarm state from the at least one instrument.
19. A system comprising:
a memory; and
a processor in communication with the memory, the processor configured to perform a method comprising receiving data from at least one analytical instrument monitoring at least one liquid sample,
executing a set of logical operations segmenting the received data into data segments for at least two characteristics of at least one of the at least one instrument, the at least one sample, and at least one operating environment of the at least one instrument,
executing a set of logical operations analyzing each of the data segments for the at least two characteristics, resulting in analyzed data segments,
retrieving threshold values for the at least two characteristics from a computer data source,
calculating at least one status of at least one of the at least one instrument, the at least one sample, and the at least one operating environment, with respect to the analyzed data segments and the threshold values, and
displaying the at least one status on at least one display of the at least one instrument.
20. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising:
receiving data from at least one analytical instrument monitoring at least one
liquid sample;
executing a set of logical operations segmenting the received data into data segments for at least two characteristics of at least one of the at least one instrument, the at least one sample, and at least one operating environment of the at least one instrument;
executing a set of logical operations analyzing each of the data segments for the at least two characteristics, resulting in analyzed data segments; retrieving threshold values for the at least two characteristics from a computer data source;
calculating at least one status of at least one of the at least one instrument, the at least one sample, and the at least one operating environment, with respect to the analyzed data segments and the threshold values; and
displaying the at least one status on at least one display of the at least one instrument.
</claims>
</document>
