<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/08,H04R25/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COCHLEAR
</assignee>

<inventors>
HERSBACH, ADAM
CARTER, PAUL MICHAEL
OPLINGER, KENNETH
MURPHY, RICHARD BRUCE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74060160
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTION AND IDENTIFICATION TECHNIQUES USED WITH A HEARING PROSTHESIS
</title>

<abstract>
A method, including receiving a signal which includes speech data, processing the received signal to identify and/or predict one or more words in the speech data, and evoking a hearing percept based on the received signal, wherein the evoked hearing percept includes one or more modified words based on the identification and/or prediction of the one or more words.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method, comprising:
receiving a signal which includes speech data;
processing the received signal to identify and/or predict one or more words in the speech data; and
evoking a hearing percept based in the received signal, wherein the evoked hearing percept includes one or more modified words based on the identification and/or prediction of the one or more words.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the processing is correlated with a noticeable delay in the hearing percept that is noticed by the person in which the hearing percept is evoked relative to that which would be the case in the absence of the processing.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the processing includes utilizing speech recognition software to identify the one or more words.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the processing is not correlated with a noticeable delay in the hearing prosthesis noticed by the person in which the hearing percept is evoked.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of:
the signal is modified to produce a word that sounds differently relative to that which would have been the case in the absence of the modification; or
a new signal is produced that is provided to a device that evokes the hearing percept, which new signal results in the production of a word that sounds differently relative to that which would have been the case if the signal was used by the device.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein at least one of:
the signal is modified to produce a word with a different accent relative to that which would have been the case in the absence of the modification; or a new signal is produced that is provided to a device that evokes the hearing percept, which new signal results in the production of a word with a different accent relative to that which would have been the case if the signal was used by the device.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the action of processing the received signal is executed in real time during a conversation between the person in which the hearing percept is evoked and a person who generated the speech data.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the action of identifying and/or predicting one or more words in the speech data includes identifying and/or predicting one or more sentences in the speech data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the evoked hearing percept includes a totally synthesized word based on the identification and/or prediction of the one or more words in place of a word that would have been presented based on the signal.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the evoked hearing percept includes only speech, which speech is intentionally different from that which would have been the case in the absence of the identification and/or prediction.
11. A method, comprising:
receiving a signal which includes speech data;
processing the received signal to identify and/or predict one or more words in the speech data; and
evoking a hearing percept based in the received signal, wherein the evoked hearing percept is a different hearing percept relative to that which would have been the case in the absence of the identification and/or prediction.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
automatically adjusting a noise control system of a hearing prosthesis that is evoking the hearing percept based on the identified and/or predicted one or more words.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
automatically adjusting a volume and/or a gain of a hearing prosthesis that is evoking the hearing percept based on the identified and/or predicted one or more words.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein at least one of:
signal is modified to produce a word that is a different word than that which would have likely been perceived by the recipient relative to that which would have been the case in the absence of the modification; or
a new signal is produced that is provided to a device that evokes the hearing percept, which new signal results in the production of a word that is a different word than that which would have likely been perceived by the recipient relative to that which would have been the case if the signal was used by the device.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein at least one of:
signal is modified to produce a meaning that is a different than that which would have likely been comprehended by the recipient relative to that which would have been the case in the absence of the modification; or
a new signal is produced that is provided to a device that evokes the hearing percept, which new signal produces a meaning that is a different from that which would have likely been comprehended by the recipient relative to that which would have been the case if the signal was used by the device.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein:
the signal is modified to produce a completely different sound relative to that which would have been the case in the absence of the modification; or
a new signal is produced that is provided to a device that evokes the hearing percept, which new signal results in the evocation of a completely different sound relative to that which would have been the case if the signal was used by the device.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the action of identifying and/or predicting one or more words in the speech data includes identifying one or more sentences in the speech data and there is no noticeable delay noticeable by the person in which the hearing percept is evoked.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein:
the processing is correlated to a noticeable delay in the hearing prosthesis noticeable by the person in which the hearing percept is evoked relative to that which would be the case in the absence of the processing; and
the method further comprises:
evaluating an overall context related to the received signal;
determining one or more parameters for a delay that will result in the noticeable delay; and
adjusting a processing regime used by the processing so that the noticeable delay falls within the one or more parameters.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein:
the one or more parameters include a length of the delay; and
the length of the delay is longer for video based speech data than for real time speech data from a person speaking to a recipient of a hearing prosthesis that is used to evoke the hearing percept.
20. The method of claim 11 :
wherein the hearing prosthesis is configured to evoke a hearing percept such that a hybrid word is provided to the recipient based on the results of the identification.
21. The method of claim 11 :
wherein the hearing prosthesis is configured to evaluate a level of certainty of the identification and generate a hearing percept based on the evaluation of the level of certainty, wherein the generated hearing percept is different depending on the level of certainty.
22. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
the evoked hearing percept is a totally synthesized hearing percept that maximizes comprehension of speech at the expense of tone, uniqueness and/or emphasis.
23. A system, comprising:
a hearing prosthesis including a sound capture device and a processing system, wherein the hearing prosthesis is configured to convert sound captured by the system and process a signal based on the captured sound with the processing system and evoke a hearing percept based on output from the processing system based on the signal, wherein
the system includes a sound prediction and/or word identification functionality such that the system is configured to predict sound that is captured by the sound capture device.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein:
wherein the system has the sound prediction functionality which is a word prediction functionality.
25. The system of claim 24, wherein:
wherein the system is configured to evoke a hearing percept based on a result of the word prediction functionality that is different from that which would be the case in the absence of the result.
26. The system of claim 23, wherein:
wherein the sound prediction functionality is a word prediction functionality, and the system has such, and wherein the word prediction functionality is the ability to predict a word after one or more next words that have yet to be received by the processing system.
27. The system of claim 23, wherein:
the prosthesis is configured to increase an aggressiveness of a noise reduction algorithm based on prediction of sound.
28. The system of claim 23, wherein:
the system includes a speech presence probability estimator; and
the system is configured to use the sound prediction functionality to enhance functionality of the speech presence probability estimator.
29. The system of claim 23, wherein:
the system is configured to introduce a variable delay between sound capture and the evocation of the hearing percept; and
the system is configured to use the prediction functionality to predict words and then compare the predicted word to what is then received and then adjust the operation of the system to evoke a hearing percept based on this comparison.
30. The system of claim 23, wherein:
the system is configured to introduce a delay between the temporal locations of the sound capture and the evocation of the hearing percept that is delta to the normal processing delay; and
the system is configured to identify a sound environment, and vary the delay based on the identified sound environment.
</claims>
</document>
