<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B23/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
3M INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY (MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DONOGHUE, CLAIRE R.
WATSON, BENJAMIN W.
BOXALL, Nigel B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70277426
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM CONTROL THROUGH A NETWORK OF PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A system includes a piece of equipment and an article of personal protective equipment (PPE) associated with a first worker. The PPE establishes a communications channel between the article of PPE and the piece of industrial equipment, receives status information from the piece of industrial equipment via the communications channel, notifies the worker via the PPE of the status information received from the piece of industrial equipment, receives a response from the worker via the PPE, and transmits to the piece of industrial equipment, via the communications channel and based on the response, commands that cause a change in operation of the piece of industrial equipment.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. An article of personal protective equipment (PPE), comprising:
an input device;
an output device; and
at least one computing device connected to the input device and the output device, the at least one computing device configured to:
associate the article of PPE with a worker;
identify a piece of industrial equipment;
establish a communications channel between the article of PPE and the identified piece of industrial equipment;
receive status information from the identified piece of industrial equipment via the communications channel;
notify the worker of the status information received from the identified piece of industrial equipment via the output device;
receive a response via the input device; and
transmit to the identified piece of industrial equipment, via the communications channel and based on the response, commands that cause a change in operation of the identified piece of industrial equipment.
2. The article of PPE of claim 1, wherein the computing device is further configured to record sound emanating from the identified piece of industrial equipment and to determine problems in the piece of industrial equipment based on an analysis of the recorded sound.
3. The article of PPE of claim 1, wherein the computing device is further configured to dynamically change operating parameters of the identified piece of industrial equipment based on a status of the article of PPE.
4. The article of PPE of claim 1, wherein the computing device is further configured to dynamically change operating parameters of the identified piece of industrial equipment based on a status of the identified piece of industrial equipment.
5. The article of PPE of claim 1, wherein the computing device is further configured to dynamically change operating parameters of the identified piece of industrial equipment based on a safety issue outside the PPE and the identified piece of industrial equipment.
6. The article of PPE of claim 1, wherein the communications channel is based on Data-over-Sound (DoS).
7. A system comprising:
a plurality of articles of personal protective equipment (PPE) connected to form a network of articles of PPE, wherein each article of PPE is associated with a worker assigned to a piece of industrial equipment and wherein each article of PPE includes memory and one or more processors, wherein the memory of each article of PPE includes instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause one or more articles of PPE to:
identify the worker associated with the PPE and the piece of industrial equipment to which the worker is assigned;
establish a communications channel with the identified piece of industrial equipment;
receive status information from the identified piece of industrial equipment via the communications channel;
notify the worker associated with the respective article of PPE of the status information received from the piece of industrial equipment to which the worker is assigned; and
transmit to the respective piece of industrial equipment via the communications channel and from the respective PPE, commands from the worker that cause a change in operation of the respective piece of industrial equipment.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the computing device is further configured to transmit a safety notification from the article of PPE associated with the worker to an article of PPE associated with another worker.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the computing device is further configured to receive a safety alert or notification and to display the safety alert or notification to the worker on a display of the PPE.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein the computing device is further configured to receive information from a PPE management system limiting commands the worker can use to control the identified machine.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein the computing device is further configured to receive requests from other parties limiting commands the worker can use to control the identified machine.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein the computing device is further configured to receive requests from other parties preventing the worker from controlling the identified machine.
13. The system of claim 7, wherein the PPEs communicate over the network using Data-over-Sound (DoS).
14. A method of controlling a piece of industrial equipment, comprising:
associating an article of PPE with a worker;
establishing a communications channel between the article of PPE and the piece of industrial equipment;
receiving status information from the piece of industrial equipment via the communications channel;
notifying the worker via the PPE of the status information received from the piece of industrial equipment;
receiving a response from the worker via the PPE; and transmitting to the piece of industrial equipment, via the communications channel and based on the response, commands that cause a change in operation of the piece of industrial equipment.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein associating an article of PPE with a worker includes receiving, at the PPE, a list of operations the worker may perform on the piece of industrial equipment.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein establishing a communications channel between the article of PPE and the piece of industrial equipment includes determining if the PPE is within a predefined distance to the piece of industrial equipment.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein transmitting commands that cause a change in operation of the piece of industrial equipment includes determining if the PPE is within a predefined distance to the piece of industrial equipment.
18. A computer readable medium including instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the processors to perform one of the methods of claims 14-17.
</claims>
</document>
