<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F24D19/10,F24F11/00,F24F11/30,F24F11/32,F24F11/38,F24F11/52
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KABLER RONALD BYRON
PASUPULETI MURALI
</assignee>

<inventors>
KABLER RONALD BYRON
PASUPULETI MURALI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73456622
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADVANCED MONITORING OF AN HVAC SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for advanced monitoring of an HVAC system. In some implementations, a voltage measurement across at least two interface terminals of a thermostat that controls an HVAC system of a property is obtained. The voltage measurements are analyzed. A likely power cycling activity of a component of the HVAC system is determined based on analyzing the voltage measurements. Whether the HVAC system is operating properly is determined based on the likely power cycling activity of the component of the HVAC system. Data indicating whether the HVAC system is operating properly is generated and outputted based on determining whether the HVAC system is operating properly.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by one or more computers, the method comprising:
obtaining voltage measurements across at least two interface terminals of a thermostat that controls an HVAC system of a property;
analyzing the voltage measurements;
based on analyzing the voltage measurements, determining a likely power cycling activity of a component of the HVAC system;
based on the likely power cycling activity of the component of the HVAC system, determining whether the HVAC system is operating properly; and
based on determining whether the HVAC system is operating properly, generating and outputting data indicating whether the HVAC system is operating properly
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein determining the likely power cycling activity of the component of the HVAC system comprises:
identifying a voltage waveform from the voltage measurements;
identifying one or more deviations in the voltage waveform from a waveform model;
determining that the one or more deviations match one or more known voltage deviations, wherein the known voltage deviations correspond to different power cycling activities; and
in response, determining the likely power cycling activity as the power cycling activity that corresponds to the one or more known voltage deviations.
3. The method of claim 2, comprising obtaining the waveform model,
wherein the waveform model corresponds to a signal generated by the thermostat or by the HVAC system.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the signal indicates that one or more
components of the HVAC system should be turned on or have been turned on.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the signal indicates that one or more components of the HVAC system should be turned off or have been turned off.
6. The method of claim 2, comprising obtaining the waveform model,
wherein the waveform model corresponds to one or more of the HVAC system, components of the HVAC system, models of components of the HVAC system, the component of the HVAC system, or a model of the component of the HVAC system.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein identifying the one or more deviations in the voltage waveform from the waveform model comprises determining that the voltage waveform deviates one or more of a threshold amplitude or a threshold frequency from the waveform model.
8. The method of claim 2, comprising obtaining the known voltage deviations,
wherein the known voltage deviations correspond to one or more of power cycling events of components of the HVAC system, models of components of the HVAC system, the component of the HVAC system, a model of the component of the HVAC system, or electronic devices outside of the HVAC system
9. The method of claim 2, wherein determining that the one or more deviations match the one or more known voltage deviations comprises determining that the one or more deviations are within one or more of a threshold amplitude or a threshold frequency from the one or more known voltage deviations.
10. The method of claim 1 , wherein determining the likely power cycling activity of the component of the HVAC system comprises determining one or more of:
the component of the HVAC system turned off;
the component of the HVAC system turned on;
the component of the HVAC system turned off and then turned on; or
the component of the HVAC system turned on and then turned off.
1 1. The method of claim 1 , wherein:
obtaining the voltage measurements across at least two interface terminals of the thermostat comprises obtaining, by the thermostat, the voltage measurements across the at least two interface terminals of the thermostat that are coupled to the component of the HVAC system;
analyzing the voltage measurements comprises analyzing, by the thermostat, the voltage measurements;
determining the likely power cycling activity of the component of the HVAC system comprises determining, by the thermostat, the likely power cycling activity of the component of the HVAC system;
determining whether the HVAC system is operating properly comprises determining, by the thermostat, whether the HVAC system is operating properly; and generating and outputting data indicating whether the HVAC system is operating properly comprises generating and outputting, by the thermostat, data indicating whether the HVAC system is operating properly.
12. The method of claim 1 , wherein determining whether the HVAC system is operating properly comprises:
identifying an operation of the HVAC system corresponding to the voltage measurements, the operation indicating expected power cycling activities of
components of the HVAC system and expected states of the components of the HVAC system; and
determining that the HVAC system is operating properly if the likely power cycling activity of the component of the HVAC system is an expected power cycling activity of the expected power cycling activities, or determining that the HVAC system is operating improperly if the likely power cycling activity of the component of the HVAC system is not an expected power cycling activity of the power cycling activities.
13. The method of claim 12, comprising:
obtaining sensor data; and using the sensor data to independently verify one or more of that the component of the HVAC system experienced the likely power cycling activity, that a state of the component of the HVAC system matches an expected state of the component of the HVAC system based on the operation, a state of the component of the HVAC system does not match an expected state of the component of the HVAC system based on the operation, that power cycling activities experienced by the component of the HVAC system other than the likely power cycling activity match expected power cycling activities of the component of the HVAC system based on the operation, that power cycling activities experienced by the component of the HVAC system other than the likely power cycling activity do not match expected power cycling activities of the component of the HVAC system based on the operation, states of other components of the HVAC system match expected states of other components of the HVAC system based on the operation, states of other components of the HVAC system do not match expected states of other components of the HVAC system based on the operation, that power cycling activities of other components of the HVAC system match expected power cycling activities of other components of the HVAC system based on the operation, or that power cycling activities of other components of the HVAC system do not match expected power cycling activities of other components of the HVAC system based on the operation.
14. The method of claim 1 , wherein generating and outputting the data indicating whether the HVAC system is operating properly comprises:
generating information that includes one or more of an indication that the HVAC system is operating properly, an indication that the HVAC system is operating improperly, indications of unexpected power cycling activities, indications of
components of the HVAC system that experienced unexpected power cycling activities, indications of unexpected states of components of the HVAC system, or indications of components of the HVAC system that have an unexpected state; and
providing the information to a device.
15. The method of claim 1 , wherein analyzing the voltage measurements comprises: applying one or more voltage thresholds to the voltage measurements; and determining the likely power cycling activity based on which of the one or more voltage thresholds are met.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the likely power cycling activity is a turn-on event of a component of the HVAC system or of an appliance of the property.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the likely power cycling activity is a turn-off event of a component of the HVAC system or of an appliance of the property.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein determining the likely power cycling activity of the component of the HVAC system comprises:
identifying a state of the thermostat;
based on the state, identifying one or more commands sent by the thermostat to the HVAC system,
wherein each of the one or more commands is associated with a power cycling activity and a component of the HVAC system;
determining one or more time periods corresponding to the one or more commands;
determining that the likely power cycling activity occurs during a time period of the one or more time periods; and
associating the likely power cycling activity with the component of the HVAC system that corresponds to the time period.
19. A system comprising:
one or more computers; and
one or more computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed, cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising:
obtaining voltage measurements across at least two interface terminals of a thermostat that controls an HVAC system of a property;
analyzing the voltage measurements; based on analyzing the voltage measurements, determining a likely power cycling activity of a component of the HVAC system;
based on the likely power cycling activity of the component of the HVAC system, determining whether the HVAC system is operating properly; and
based on determining whether the HVAC system is operating properly, generating and outputting data indicating whether the HVAC system is operating properly
20. One or more non-fransitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by one or more computers, cause the one or more computers t perform operations comprising:
obtaining voltage measurements across at least two interface terminals of a thermostat that controls an HVAC system of a property;
analyzing the voltage measurements;
based on analyzing the voltage measurements, determining a likely power cycling activity of a component of the HVAC system;
based on the likely power cycling activity of the component of the HVAC system, determining whether the HVAC system is operating properly; and
based on determining whether the HVAC system is operating properly, generating and outputting data indicating whether the HVAC system is operating properly.
</claims>
</document>
