<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-11-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOMACRUZ, Eric R.
</assignee>

<inventors>
TOMACRUZ, Eric R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68841165
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM FOR CREATING WHITE-LABELED REWARDS AND PERSONALIZED RECOMMENDATION PLATFORM
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform comprising: a merchant digital channel or onsite payment device for processing the purchase order of the customer; a product data mining server configured to harvest publicly accessible information of rewards merchants to capture new, trending and sale items; and an e-commerce enabler digital channel for referring online or offline transactions, whereby a customer can access transaction recommendations via website, mobile applications, EDM (Electronic Direct Mail), SMS, or social media of the e-commerce enabler. E-commerce are credit card, debit card, e-wallet, loyalty, logistics, telco, and other companies that are connected in an e-commerce journey. The system allows prompt rewards even with purchases that may be returned or reservations be cancelled by having a chargeback option for rewards.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform comprising:
a) A merchant digital channel or onsite payment device for processing the purchase order of the customer;
b) A product data mining server configured to harvest publicly accessible information of cashback merchants to capture new, trending and sale items; and
c) An e-commerce enabler digital channel for referring online or offline transactions, whereby a customer can access transaction recommendations via the website, mobile applications, EDM (Electronic Direct Mail), SMS, or social media of the e-commerce enabler.
2. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 1 wherein the merchant digital channel consists of a commerce server and an affiliate server.
3. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 2, wherein the product data mining server consists of a recommendation server and user behavior server.
4. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 3, wherein the e-commerce enabler digital channels consist of an e-commerce enabler server.
5. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 4 wherein the merchants' affiliate programs are transformed into a rewards platform to -ecommerce enablers to deploy as a white-labeled service.
6. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 4 wherein credit of rewards from merchant affiliate programs into e-commerce enabler accounts are automatically executed;
7. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 4 wherein user viewing and purchase data are used to personalize recommendations in the digital channels of e-commerce enablers.
8. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 4 wherein user purchase intent and e-commerce enablers' transaction history are used to provide offline purchase rewards.
9. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 4 wherein prompt rewards are allowed even with purchases that may be returned or reservations be canceled by having a chargeback option for rewards.
10. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 4 wherein user EDM recommendations are done through dynamic images that are generated only upon the viewing of the EDM.
11. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 4 wherein the data mining server is used to harvest additional product-related content to increase recommendation engagement.
12. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 4 wherein the recommendation server is used in the digital channels of the rewards merchant for client engagement in return for revenue generation using the merchant affiliate server.
13. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 4 wherein digital channels like EDM or SMS are used to generate rewards ID for tracking users from a website in place of using a login.
14. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 4 wherein ecommerce enablers check if their payment gateway was used before crediting the reward to the users.
15. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 7 wherein the digital channel is a URL subdomain website of the e-commerce enabler generated by the recommendation server.
16. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 7 wherein product reviews processed through sentiment analysis are used to personalize recommendations in the digital channels of e-commerce enablers.
17. A method performed by a computer system, for providing prompt rewards even with purchases that may be returned or reservations be canceled, comprising:
a. Maintaining a record of online transactions by the user; b. Analyzing the online transactions;
c. Identifying the online transactions that satisfy the chargeback of rewards.
18. A method, performed by a computer system for creating a whitelabeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform comprising: a. processing the purchase order of the customer via the merchant digital channel or onsite payment device;
b. harvesting publicly accessible information of cashback merchants to capture new, trending, and sale items via a product data mining server; and
c. referring online transactions via an e-commerce enabler digital channel whereby a customer can access online transaction recommendations via website, mobile applications, EDM (Electronic Direct Mail), SMS, or social media of the e-commerce enabler.
19. A method performed by a computer system, for providing user
EDM recommendations, comprising the steps of:
a. harvesting publicly accessible information of cashback merchants to capture new, trending, and sale items;
b. referring online transactions via e-commerce enabler digital channel whereby online transaction recommendations can be accessed through EDM without the need of EDM hosting API; and
c. Using dynamic recommendation images that are generated only upon the viewing of the EDM.
20. 20. A computer-implemented system for creating a white-labeled rewards and personalized recommendation platform as in Claim 1 wherein the offline merchants track the referral of an e-commerce enabler via an activate functionality that has a time limit.
</claims>
</document>
