<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B41/00,E21B43/12,G05D7/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAUDI ARABIAN OIL COMPANY
ARAMCO SERVICES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
AL-QASIM, ABDULAZIZ
BUKHAMSEEN, AHMED Y.
ALANAZI, Amer
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70922166
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED PRODUCTION OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUE FOR SMART WELL COMPLETIONS USING REAL-TIME NODAL ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods include a method providing automated production optimization for smart well completions using real-time nodal analysis including real-time modeling. Real-time well rates and flowing bottom-hole pressure data are collected by a multilateral well optimizing system at various choke settings for multiple flow conditions for each lateral of a multilateral well during regular field optimization procedures. Surface and downhole pressures and production metrics for each of the laterals are recorded for one lateral at a time. A multilateral well production model is calibrated using the surface and downhole pressures and the production metrics for each of the laterals. Flowing parameters of individual laterals are estimated using the multilateral well production model. An optimum pressure drop across each downhole valve is determined using the multilateral well production model. A productivity of each lateral is estimated using the model during the commingled production at various choke valves settings.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method for real-time modeling based on nodal analysis of multilateral wells, comprising:
collecting, by a multilateral well optimizing system from a multilateral well during regular field optimization procedures, real-time well rates and flowing bottomhole pressure data at various choke settings for multiple flow conditions for each lateral of the multilateral well;
recording, by the multilateral well optimizing system during production of the well and for one lateral at a time, surface and downhole pressures and production metrics for each of the laterals;
calibrating, by the multilateral well optimizing system using the surface and downhole pressures and the production metrics for each of the laterals, a multilateral well production model;
estimating, by the multilateral well optimizing system using the multilateral well production model, flowing parameters of individual laterals;
determining, by the multilateral well optimizing system using the multilateral well production model, an optimum pressure drop across each downhole valve; and estimating, by the multilateral well optimizing system using the multilateral well production model, a productivity of each lateral during the commingled production at various choke valves settings.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the multilateral well production model is implemented using a commercial steady-state model.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the multiple flow conditions include commingled testing and individual lateral testing.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising calibrating, using the real-time well rates and the flowing bottom-hole pressure data, a multilateral well production model, including:
determining, by the multilateral well optimizing system based at least on the real-time well rates and the flowing bottom-hole pressure data, recommended optimizing changes to downhole inflow control valve (ICY) settings for surface ICVs and subsurface ICVs in one or more laterals of the multilateral well, the optimizing changes designed to optimize production in the multilateral well; and
providing, by the multilateral well optimizing system for presentation to the user in a user interface of the multilateral well optimizing system, the recommended optimizing changes to the downhole ICV settings for the surface ICVs and the subsurface ICVs in the one or more laterals of the multilateral well.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
determining, in real time for each of the laterals, a productivity index (PI); determining, using the Pis for the laterals, a commingled PI; and
applying the commingled PI to the model.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the commingled PI is based on the productivity of each lateral and the overall productivity of the multilateral well.
7. The computer-implemented method of 1, wherein the production metrics include oil production rates and water production rates. 8. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising:
collecting, by a multilateral well optimizing system from a multilateral well during regular field optimization procedures, real-time well rates and flowing bottomhole pressure data at various choke settings for multiple flow conditions for each lateral of the multilateral well;
recording, by the multilateral well optimizing system during production of the well and for one lateral at a time, surface and downhole pressures and production metrics for each of the laterals;
calibrating, by the multilateral well optimizing system using the surface and downhole pressures and the production metrics for each of the laterals, a multilateral well production model;
estimating, by the multilateral well optimizing system using the multilateral well production model, flowing parameters of individual laterals;
determining, by the multilateral well optimizing system using the multilateral well production model, an optimum pressure drop across each downhole valve; and estimating, by the multilateral well optimizing system using the multilateral well production model, a productivity of each lateral during the commingled production at various choke valves settings.
9. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the multilateral well production model is implemented using a commercial steady-state model.
10. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the multiple flow conditions include commingled testing and individual lateral testing.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, the operations further comprising calibrating, using the real-time well rates and the flowing bottom-hole pressure data, a multilateral well production model, including:
determining, by the multilateral well optimizing system based at least on the real-time well rates and the flowing bottom-hole pressure data, recommended optimizing changes to downhole inflow control valve (ICV) settings for surface ICVs and subsurface ICVs in one or more laterals of the multilateral well, the optimizing changes designed to optimize production in the multilateral well; and
providing, by the multilateral well optimizing system for presentation to the user in a user interface of the multilateral well optimizing system, the recommended optimizing changes to the downhole ICV settings for the surface ICVs and the subsurface ICVs in the one or more laterals of the multilateral well. 12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, the operations further comprising:
determining, in real time for each of the laterals, a productivity index (PI); determining, using the Pis for the laterals, a commingled PI; and
applying the commingled PI to the model. 13. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the commingled PI is based on the productivity of each lateral and the overall productivity of the multilateral well.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the production metrics include oil production rates and water production rates.
15. A computer-implemented system, comprising:
one or more processors; and
a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium coupled to the one or more processors and storing programming instructions for execution by the one or more processors, the programming instructions instructing the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
collecting, by a multilateral well optimizing system from a multilateral well during regular field optimization procedures, real-time well rates and flowing bottom-hole pressure data at various choke settings for multiple flow conditions for each lateral of the multilateral well;
recording, by the multilateral well optimizing system during production of the well and for one lateral at a time, surface and downhole pressures and production metrics for each of the laterals;
calibrating, by the multilateral well optimizing system using the surface and downhole pressures and the production metrics for each of the laterals, a multilateral well production model;
estimating, by the multilateral well optimizing system using the multilateral well production model, flowing parameters of individual laterals;
determining, by the multilateral well optimizing system using the multilateral well production model, an optimum pressure drop across each downhole valve; and
estimating, by the multilateral well optimizing system using the multilateral well production model, a productivity of each lateral during the commingled production at various choke valves settings. 16. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, wherein the multilateral well production model is implemented using a commercial steady-state model.
17. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, wherein the multiple flow conditions include commingled testing and individual lateral testing.
18. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, the operations further comprising calibrating, using the real-time well rates and the flowing bottom-hole pressure data, a multilateral well production model, including: determining, by the multilateral well optimizing system based at least on the real-time well rates and the flowing bottom-hole pressure data, recommended optimizing changes to downhole inflow control valve (ICV) settings for surface ICVs and subsurface ICVs in one or more laterals of the multilateral well, the optimizing changes designed to optimize production in the multilateral well; and
providing, by the multilateral well optimizing system for presentation to the user in a user interface of the multilateral well optimizing system, the recommended optimizing changes to the downhole ICV settings for the surface ICVs and the subsurface ICVs in the one or more laterals of the multilateral well. 19. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, the operations further comprising: determining, in real time for each of the laterals, a productivity index (PI); determining, using the Pis for the laterals, a commingled PI; and
applying the commingled PI to the model.
20. The computer-implemented system of claim 19, wherein the commingled PI is based on the productivity of each lateral and the overall productivity of the multilateral well.
</claims>
</document>
