<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W40/06,G01C21/20,G01C21/30,G01C21/32,G01C21/34,G01C21/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DEEPMAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
CUI, MING
HAN, Xianglong
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74065992
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETERMINATION OF LANE CONNECTIVITY AT TRAFFIC INTERSECTIONS FOR HIGH DEFINITION MAPS
</title>

<abstract>
According to an aspect of an embodiment, operations may comprise accessing an HD map of a region comprising information describing an intersection of two or more roads and describing lanes of the two or more roads that intersect the intersection, automatically identifying constraints on the lanes at the intersection, automatically calculating, based on the constraints on the lanes at the intersection, lane connectivity for the intersection, displaying, on a user interface, the automatically calculated lane connectivity for the intersection, receiving, from a user through the user interface, confirmation that the automatically calculated lane connectivity for the intersection is an actual lane connectivity for the intersection, and adding the actual lane connectivity for the intersection to the information describing the intersection in the HD map.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising:
accessing a high definition (HD) map of a region, the HD map comprising information describing an intersection of two or more roads and describing lanes of the two or more roads that intersect the intersection;
automatically identifying constraints on the lanes at the intersection;
automatically calculating, based on the constraints on the lanes at the intersection, lane connectivity for the intersection, the lane connectivity indicating which of the lanes that are outgoing from the intersection a vehicle can legally travel from each of the lanes that is incoming into the intersection;
displaying, on a user interface, the automatically calculated lane connectivity for the intersection;
receiving, from a user through the user interface, confirmation that the automatically calculated lane connectivity for the intersection is an actual lane connectivity for the intersection; and
adding the actual lane connectivity for the intersection to the information describing the intersection in the HD map.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the automatic calculating of the lane connectivity for the intersection and the receiving of the confirmation results in the actual lane connectivity for the intersection being added to the information describing the intersection in the HD map more quickly and more accurately than using an entirely manual process or an entirely automated process.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the automatically calculating of the lane connectivity for the intersection further comprises:
accessing predefined lane connectivity templates that can apply to the intersection, the predefined lane connectivity templates configured to prevent invalid combinations of lane directions;
filtering the predefined lane connectivity templates to eliminate predefined lane connectivity templates that are inconsistent with the constraints on the lanes at the intersection; ranking the predefined lane connectivity templates that remain after performing the filtering; and automatically calculating the lane connectivity for the intersection based on a top ranked predefined lane connectivity template.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising, if the top ranked predefined lane connectivity template does not match the intersection, creating a new predefined lane connectivity template based on the actual lane connectivity for the intersection.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the accessing of the predefined lane connectivity templates that can apply to the intersection comprises accessing predefined lane connectivity templates that conform to a governmental jurisdiction in which the intersection is located.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the automatically identifying of the constraints on the lanes at the intersection further comprises automatically determining a type of each of the lanes.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the automatically identifying of the constraints on the lanes at the intersection further comprises automatically determining a direction in which a vehicle can travel in each of the lanes.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the automatically identifying of the constraints on the lanes at the intersection further comprises automatically determining, for each two turn lanes with conflicting traffic, a priority specifying which of the two turn lanes has a right of way.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the automatically identifying of the constraints on the lanes at the intersection further comprises automatically associating a traffic sign to a side of the intersection that it controls.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the automatically identifying of the constraints on the lanes at the intersection is based on traffic lights, traffic signs, road markings, traffic rules, or traffic laws, or some combination thereof, for the lanes at the intersection.
11. One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media storing instructions that in response to being executed by one or more processors, cause a computer system to perform operations, the operations comprising:
accessing a high definition (HD) map of a region, the HD map comprising information describing an intersection of two or more roads and describing lanes of the two or more roads that intersect the intersection;
automatically identifying constraints on the lanes at the intersection;
automatically calculating, based on the constraints on the lanes at the intersection, lane connectivity for the intersection, the lane connectivity indicating which of the lanes that are outgoing from the intersection a vehicle can legally travel from each of the lanes that is incoming into the intersection;
displaying, on a user interface, the automatically calculated lane connectivity for the intersection;
receiving, from a user through the user interface, confirmation that the automatically calculated lane connectivity for the intersection is an actual lane connectivity for the intersection; and
adding the actual lane connectivity for the intersection to the information describing the intersection in the HD map.
12. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the automatic calculating of the lane connectivity for the intersection and the receiving of the confirmation results in the actual lane connectivity for the intersection being added to the information describing the intersection in the HD map more quickly and more accurately than using an entirely manual process or an entirely automated process.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the automatically calculating of the lane connectivity for the intersection further comprises:
accessing predefined lane connectivity templates that can apply to the intersection, the predefined lane connectivity templates configured to prevent invalid combinations of lane directions;
filtering the predefined lane connectivity templates to eliminate predefined lane connectivity templates that are inconsistent with the constraints on the lanes at the intersection; ranking the predefined lane connectivity templates that remain after performing the filtering; and
automatically calculating the lane connectivity for the intersection based on a top ranked predefined lane connectivity template.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise, if the top ranked predefined lane connectivity template does not match the intersection, creating a new predefined lane connectivity template based on the actual lane connectivity for the intersection.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 13, wherein the accessing of the predefined lane connectivity templates that can apply to the intersection comprises accessing predefined lane connectivity templates that conform to a governmental jurisdiction in which the intersection is located.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the automatically identifying of the constraints on the lanes at the intersection further comprises automatically determining a type of each of the lanes.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the automatically identifying of the constraints on the lanes at the intersection further comprises automatically determining a direction in which a vehicle can travel in each of the lanes.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the automatically identifying of the constraints on the lanes at the intersection further comprises automatically determining, for each two turn lanes with conflicting traffic, a priority specifying which of the two turn lanes has a right of way.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the automatically identifying of the constraints on the lanes at the intersection further comprises automatically associating a traffic sign to a side of the intersection that it controls.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the automatically identifying of the constraints on the lanes at the intersection is based on traffic lights, traffic signs, road markings, traffic rules, or traffic laws, or some combination thereof, for the lanes at the intersection.
21. A computer system comprising:
one or more processors; and
one or more non-transitory computer readable media storing instructions that in response to being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to perform operations, the operations comprising:
accessing a high definition (HD) map of a region, the HD map comprising information describing an intersection of two or more roads and describing lanes of the two or more roads that intersect the intersection;
automatically identifying constraints on the lanes at the intersection;
automatically calculating, based on the constraints on the lanes at the intersection, lane connectivity for the intersection, the lane connectivity indicating which of the lanes that are outgoing from the intersection a vehicle can legally travel from each of the lanes that is incoming into the intersection;
displaying, on a user interface, the automatically calculated lane connectivity for the intersection;
receiving, from a user through the user interface, confirmation that the automatically calculated lane connectivity for the intersection is an actual lane connectivity for the intersection; and
adding the actual lane connectivity for the intersection to the information describing the intersection in the HD map.
22. The computer system of claim 21, wherein the automatic calculating of the lane connectivity for the intersection and the receiving of the confirmation results in the actual lane connectivity for the intersection being added to the information describing the intersection in the HD map more quickly and more accurately than using an entirely manual process or an entirely automated process.
23. The computer system of claim 21, wherein the automatically calculating of the lane connectivity for the intersection further comprises: accessing predefined lane connectivity templates that can apply to the intersection, the predefined lane connectivity templates configured to prevent invalid combinations of lane directions;
filtering the predefined lane connectivity templates to eliminate predefined lane connectivity templates that are inconsistent with the constraints on the lanes at the intersection; ranking the predefined lane connectivity templates that remain after performing the filtering; and
automatically calculating the lane connectivity for the intersection based on a top ranked predefined lane connectivity template.
24. The computer system of claim 23, wherein the operations further comprise, if the top ranked predefined lane connectivity template does not match the intersection, creating a new predefined lane connectivity template based on the actual lane connectivity for the intersection.
25. The computer system of claim 23, wherein the accessing of the predefined lane connectivity templates that can apply to the intersection comprises accessing predefined lane connectivity templates that conform to a governmental jurisdiction in which the intersection is located.
26. The computer system of claim 21, wherein the automatically identifying of the constraints on the lanes at the intersection further comprises automatically determining a type of each of the lanes.
27. The computer system of claim 21, wherein the automatically identifying of the constraints on the lanes at the intersection further comprises automatically determining a direction in which a vehicle can travel in each of the lanes.
28. The computer system of claim 21, wherein the automatically identifying of the constraints on the lanes at the intersection further comprises automatically determining, for each two turn lanes with conflicting traffic, a priority specifying which of the two turn lanes has a right of way.
29. The computer system of claim 21, wherein the automatically identifying of the constraints on the lanes at the intersection further comprises automatically associating a traffic sign to a side of the intersection that it controls. 30. The computer system of claim 21, wherein the automatically identifying of the constraints on the lanes at the intersection is based on traffic lights, traffic signs, road markings, traffic rules, or traffic laws, or some combination thereof, for the lanes at the intersection.
</claims>
</document>
