<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61F7/00,A61H23/02,A61H7/00,A61H9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOSE CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KULOVIC, KEMAL
TROTTER, JOHN ANDREW
NADDAFF, Paul Rene Naseeb
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70614659
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WEARABLE RESPIRATION MANAGEMENT DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Various implementations include wearable devices and methods for managing respiration and user health. In some particular implementations, a wearable device includes: a mount sized to couple with a body part of a user; and a housing coupled with the mount. The housing at least partially contains: a contact element for applying pressure to the body part; and an actuator coupled with the contact element, the actuator configured to actuate the contact element in applying pressure to the body part according to a prescribed pattern. The prescribed pattern includes at least two repetitions, each repetition having: a first segment at a progressively increasing pressure; a second segment at a substantially constant pressure, following the first segment; a third segment at a progressively decreasing pressure, following the second segment; and a fourth segment at a substantially constant pressure that is less than the substantially constant pressure of the second segment.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A wearable device for managing respiration and health of a user, the device comprising:
a mount sized to couple with a body part of the user; and
a housing coupled with the mount, the housing at least partially containing: a contact element for applying pressure to the body part of the user; and
an actuator coupled with the contact element, the actuator configured to actuate the contact element in applying pressure to the body part of the user according to a prescribed pattern, the prescribed pattern comprising at least two repetitions, each repetition comprising:
a first segment at a progressively increasing pressure;
a second segment at a substantially constant pressure, following the first segment;
a third segment at a progressively decreasing pressure, following the second segment; and
a fourth segment at a substantially constant pressure that is less than the substantially constant pressure of the second segment.
2. The wearable device of claim 1, wherein the mount is sized to fit on a wrist of the user, an arm of the user, an ankle of the user, a leg of the user, a waist of the user or a portion of a head of the user.
3. The wearable device of claim 1, wherein the substantially constant pressure at the second segment is a maximum applied pressure for the prescribed pattern, and is applied for a period of at least approximately 0.1 second to approximately five seconds, and wherein the third segment at the progressively decreasing pressure is applied for a period of approximately four seconds to approximately 20 seconds, wherein managing respiration in the user comprises at least one of guided breathing or breathing entrainment.
4. The wearable device of claim 1, wherein a later one of the repetitions immediately follows a preceding one of the repetitions.
5. The wearable device of claim 4, wherein the at least two repetitions comprises up to approximately 500 repetitions.
6. The wearable device of claim 1, wherein the housing fijrther comprises a controller for controlling the actuator.
7. The wearable device of claim 6, further comprising a biometric monitoring system coupled with the controller, wherein the controller is configured to adjust the prescribed patern according to at least one detected biometric condition indicator detected by the biometric monitoring system deviating from a corresponding threshold.
8. The wearable device of claim 6, wherein the controller is configured to receive commands from a smart device proximate the wearable device.
9. The wearable device of claim 6, wherein the controller is configured to initiate the prescribed patern based upon at least one of:
(a) a periodic schedule for the user,
(b) a biometric indicator indicating an elevated stress level for the user, or
(c) actuation by the user.
10. The wearable device of claim 1, wherein the actuator comprises an electro mechanical actuator, a pneumatic actuator or a flexible fiber actuator.
11. The wearable device of claim 1, wherein the contact element comprises an arcuate contact surface for at least partially wrapping around the body part of the user while applying pressure to the body part of the user, or a substantially planar contact surface for applying pressure to the body part of the user.
12. The wearable device of claim 1, further comprising a heat transfer member configured to at least one of heat or cool the body part of the user.
13. A computerimplemented method of managing respiration and health of a user with a wearable device, the method comprising:
actuating a contact element to apply pressure to a body part of the user according to a prescribed pattern, the prescribed pattern comprising at least two repetitions, each repetition comprising: a first segment at a progressively increasing pressure; a second segment at a substantially constant pressure, following the first segment; a third segment at a progressively decreasing pressure, following the second segment; and a fourth segment at a substantially constant pressure that is less than the substantially constant pressure of the second segment.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the substantially constant pressure at the second segment is a maximum applied pressure for the prescribed pattern, and is applied for a period of at least approximately 0.1 second to approximately five seconds, and wherein the third segment at the progressively decreasing pressure is applied for a period of approximately four seconds to approximately 20 seconds.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein a later one of the repetitions immediately follows a preceding one of the repetitions, and wherein the at least two repetitions comprises up to approximately 500 repetitions.
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising: monitoring at least one biometric condition of the user; and adjusting the prescribed pattern according to the at least one biometric condition deviating from a corresponding threshold.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the prescribed pattern is initiated based upon at least one of
(a) a periodic schedule for the user,
(b) a biometric indicator indicating an elevated stress level for the user, or
(c) actuation by the user.
18. A wearable device for managing respiration and health of a user, the device comprising:
a mount sized to couple with a body part of the user; and a housing coupled with the mount, the housing at least partially containing: a heat transfer element configured to at least one of heat or cool the body part of the user; and a controller coupled with the heat transfer element, the controller configured to actuate the heat transfer element in the at least one of heating or cooling the body part of the user according to a prescribed pattern, the prescribed pattern comprising at least two repetitions, each repetition comprising: a first segment at a progressively increasing or decreasing temperature; a second segment at a substantially constant temperature, following the first segment;
a third segment at a progressively decreasing or increasing temperature, following the second segment; and
a fourth segment at a substantially constant temperature that is distinct from the substantially constant temperature of the second segment.
19. The wearable device of claim 18, further comprising a biometric monitoring system coupled with the controller, wherein the controller is configured to adjust the prescribed pattern according to at least one detected biometric condition indicator detected by the biometric monitoring system deviating from a corresponding threshold.
20. The wearable device of claim 18, further comprising:
a contact element for applying pressure to the body part of the user; and an actuator coupled with the contact element, the actuator configured to actuate the contact element in applying pressure to the body part of the user.
</claims>
</document>
