<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10K11/178,H04R1/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZEROSOUND SYSTEMS INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
APPERLEY, THOMAS
PARKER, CHRIS
BOGNER, Norm W.
SCHMITT, Simon
SOBOL, Raymond
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73050495
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR SOUND WAVE GENERATION AND ACTIVE NOISE REDUCTION
</title>

<abstract>
A method for sound wave generation includes sensing characteristics of a sound wave; calculating an inverted sound wave; and emitting the inverted sound wave by flowing a current through a wire under tension that passes through a positive pole of a magnet and a negative pole of the magnet, thereby causing the wire to vibrate. An apparatus for sound wave generation includes a microphone configured to detect characteristics of a sound wave; a processor, configured to calculate an inverted sound wave; a power supply; and at least one emitter module coupled to the processor, each emitter module including one or more magnets, a wire, made of a conductive material, under tension, that passes between the positive and negative poles of the one or more magnets, and the power supply configured to deliver a current through the wire to vibrate the wire and emit the inverted sound wave.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for sound wave generation, comprising
sensing one or more characteristics of a sound wave by using a microphone configured to detect the one or more characteristics in a predetermined vicinity of the microphone;
calculating an inverted sound wave based on the one or more characteristics using a processor coupled to the microphone, configured to calculate the inverted sound wave based on the one or more characteristics; and
emitting the inverted sound wave by
flowing a current, selected by the processor according to the inverted sound wave, through a wire, thereby causing the wire to vibrate;
the wire being coupled to a membrane under tension;
the wire being positioned such that it extends substantially along a centre line between four or more magnets including first, second, third, and fourth magnets, each being elongate and planar, arranged in a rectangular shape such that each occupies a corner of the rectangular shape, the first and third magnets oriented such that their north poles face each other, the second and fourth magnets oriented such that their south poles face each other, the first and second magnets being coupled to a first plate, the third and fourth magnets being coupled to a second plate, defining therebetween the centre line; and
the first plate and the second plate each plate being a planer member.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein sensing includes sensing at a plurality of locations.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the plurality of locations includes a first location and a second location, and calculating further includes computing a speed of sound between the first location and the second location based on a distance between the first location and the second location, and the one or more characteristics detected over a period of time at each of the first location and the second location.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more characteristics includes one or more of a frequency and an amplitude.
5. An apparatus for sound wave generation, comprising:
a microphone configured to detect one or more characteristics of a sound wave detected in a predetermined vicinity of the microphone;
a processor coupled to the microphone, configured to calculate an inverted sound wave based on the one or more characteristics;
a power supply; and
a first plate and a second plate, arranged in parallel planes with a space between them, each plate being a planer member;
a membrane under tension being positioned in the space between the first plate and the second plate; and
at least one emitter module coupled to the processor, each emitter module including four or more magnets, each with a positive pole and a negative pole, including first, second, third, and fourth magnets, each being elongate and planar, arranged in a rectangular shape such that each occupies a corner of the rectangular shape, the first and third magnets oriented such that their north poles face each other, the second and fourth magnets oriented such that their south poles face each other, the first and second magnets being coupled to the first plate, the third and fourth magnets being coupled to the second plate, defining a centre line between the four magnets;
a wire, made of a conductive material, coupled to the membrane and thereby being under tension, positioned such that the wire extends substantially along the centre line; and
the power supply configured to deliver a current passing through the wire, the current selected by the processor to vibrate the wire and thereby emit the inverted sound wave.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the wire is laminated between two sheets of the membrane.
7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the wire is arranged in a zig-zag arrangement such that the wire has two or more lengths, at least one length of the two or more lengths being positioned substantially parallel to the centre line.
8. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein one or both of the first plate and the second plate is perforated.
9. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the four or more magnets are arranged parallel to one another, and the magnets coupled to the first plate are lined up with the magnets coupled to the second plate.
10. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the microphone is positioned within 1 cm of the wire.
11. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the at least one emitter module includes a first emitter module and a second emitter module, and wherein the wire of the first emitter module is substantially parallel to and positioned within 1 cm of the wire of the second emitter module.
12. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the at least one emitter module includes a first emitter module and a second emitter module, and wherein the wire of the first emitter module is substantially perpendicular to the wire of the second emitter module.
13. The apparatus of claim 5,
further comprising a second microphone spaced a distance from the microphone; and
the processor being further configured to calculate a speed of sound between the microphone and the second microphone based on the distance, and by comparing the sound waves detected over a period of time by the microphone and the second microphone; and
the one or more characteristics includes the speed of sound.
14. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the one or more characteristics includes one or more of a frequency and an amplitude.
15. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising being installed in association with a
structure.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the structure is one or more of a wall, a tarp, a screen and a fence.
17. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising being installed on a frame.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the frame is for a window installation.
</claims>
</document>
