<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALI, MOHAMMED
BALU, GOVINDA
LINK, LOURDES M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971102
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR ANALYZING ROADSIDE ASSISTANCE SERVICE OF VEHICLES IN REAL TIME
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, apparatuses, and methods for providing roadside assistance services are described herein. The system may include network computing devices and computing devices associated with user vehicles and service vehicles. The system may predict incoming requests for roadside assistance services, and may allocate service providers among various geographical regions and/or time slots to handle the incoming requests. The system may receive a request for a roadside assistance service from a user. The system may select an appropriate service provider to assist the user, and may assign the service request to the selected service provider.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising:
one or more processors; and
memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to:
receive a request to treat a current breakdown of at least an aspect of a vehicle, wherein the request includes a vehicle location and a vehicle identification;
identify, from a plurality of stored vehicle profiles, a vehicle profile based on the vehicle identification;
determine, based on the vehicle location and a breakdown characteristic of the vehicle, a sendee to treat the current breakdown, and a service vehicle from a plurality of sendee vehicles to render the service, and
update the identified vehicle profile based on one or more of: the vehicle location, the breakdown characteristic of the vehicle, and the service rendered.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining the service vehicle from the plurality of service vehicles further causes the system to:
prompt an input of a plurality of responses, wherein the plurality of responses identifies the breakdown characteristic;
determine that the service vehicle fro the plurality of sendee vehicles has the capability to perform the sendee to treat the current breakdown; and
determine that the service vehicle from the plurality of sendee vehicles is within a threshold distance to the vehicle location.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the system to:
receive and store one or more weighted scores associated with the se dee vehicle or the sendee rendered.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the receiving and storing the one or more weighted scores associated with the service vehicle or the sendee rendered further cause the system to: determine, based on one or more of the vehicle location, the vehicle profile, the breakdown characteristic, and the service rendered, one or more weights respectively associated with one or more factors;
receive an input of a value for each of the one or more factors;
determine, based on the one or more weights and values for the one or more factors, a wei ghted score of the one or more weighted scores.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the one or more factors comprise one or more of a service cost, an acceptance rate, an on-time score, a sendee performance score, an extra cost, or a user feedback score.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the system to:
receive a request to display data pertaining to one or more of a vehicle, a breakdown characteristic, a sendee, or a service vehicle;
determine the data pertaining to the one or more of the vehicle, the breakdown characteristic, the sendee, or the sendee vehicle, based on a search of one or more vehicle profiles of the plurality of stored vehicle profiles; and
display the data pertaining to the one or more of the vehicle, the breakdown characteristic, the sendee, or the senice vehicle.
7 The system of claim 6, wherein the data pertaining to the one or more of the vehicle, the breakdown characteristic, the senice, or the senice vehicle includes weather and traffic affecting the vehicle, the breakdown characteristic, the service, or the sendee vehicle.
8 The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the system to:
identify, from a plurality of stored breakdown! profiles, a breakdown! profile based on the determined breakdown characteristic of the vehicle;
update the identified breakdown profile based on one or more of: the vehicle location, the breakdown characteristic, and the senice rendered; receive a request to display data pertaining to one or more of a vehicle, a breakdown characteristic, a service, or a service vehicle;
determining data pertaining to the one or more of the vehicle, the breakdown characteristic, the service, or the sendee vehicle, based on a search of one or more breakdown profiles of the plurality of stored breakdown profiles; and
displaying the data pertaining to the one or more of the vehicle, the breakdown characteristic, the sendee, or the service vehicle
9 The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the system to:
identify, from a plurality of stored service profiles, a service profile based on the service rendered;
update the identified service profile based on one or more of: the vehicle location, the breakdown characteristic, the sendee rendered, and the determined sendee vehicle;
receive a request to display data pertaining to one or more of a vehicle, a breakdown characteristic, a sendee, or a sendee vehicle;
determining data pertaining to the one or more of the vehicle, the breakdown characteristic, the sendee, or the sendee vehicle, based on a search of one or more sendee profiles of the plurality of stored breakdown profiles; and
displaying the data pertaining to the one or more of the vehicle, the breakdown characteristic, the sendee, or the sendee vehicle.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the system to:
forecast a future breakdown of an identified vehicle based on the vehicle profile of the identified vehicle, wherein the forecast of the future breakdown includes at least a breakdown characteristic of the identified vehicle during the forecasted breakdown.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the forecast of the breakdown further includes a vehicle location during the forecasted breakdown.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the system to:
determine, based on the vehicle location and a breakdown characteristic of the vehicle, a sendee to treat the future breakdown, and a sendee vehicle from a plurality of sendee vehicles to render the sendee.
13. A method comprising:
receiving, by a computing device having at least one processor, a request to treat a current breakdown of at least an aspect of a vehicle, wherein the request includes a vehicle location and a vehicle identification;
identifying, by the at least one processor and from a plurality of stored vehicle profiles, a vehicle profile based on the vehicle identification;
determining, by the at least one processor and based on the vehicle location and a breakdown characteristic of the vehicle, a service to treat the current breakdown, and a service vehicle from a plurality of sendee vehicles to render the service; and
updating, by the at least one processor, the identified vehicle profile based on one or more of: the vehicle location, the breakdown characteristic of the vehicle, and the service rendered.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the determining, by the at least one processor, the service vehicle from the plurality of sendee vehicles further comprises:
prompting, by the at least one processor, an input of a plurality of responses, wherein the plurality of responses identify the breakdown characteristic;
determining, by the at least one processor, that the service vehicle from the plurality of service vehicles has the capability to perform the sendee to treat the current breakdown; and
determining, by the at least one processor, that the sendee vehicle from the plurality of service vehicles is within a threshold distance to the vehicle location.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving and storing, by the at least one processor, one or more weighted scores associated with the sendee vehicle or the sendee rendered.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the receiving and storing, by the at least one processor, the one or more weighted scores associated with the service vehicle or the service rendered further cause the system to:
determine, by the at least one processor and based on one or more of the vehicle location, the vehicle profile, the breakdown characteristic, and the sendee rendered, one or more weights respectively associated with one or more factors
receive, by the at least one processor, an input of a value for each of the one or more factors;
determine, by the at least one processor and based on the one or more weights and values for the one or more factors, a weighted score of the one or more weighted scores.
17. The method of claim 13, further comprising:
receiving, by the at least one processor, a request to display data pertaining to one or more of a vehicle, a breakdown characteristic, a sendee, or a sendee vehicle;
determining, by the at least one processor, the data pertaining to the one or more of the vehicle, the breakdown characteristic, the sendee, or the sendee vehicle, based on a search of one or more vehicle profiles of the plurality of stored vehicle profiles; and
displaying, by the at least one processor, the data pertaining to the one or more of the vehicle, the breakdown characteristic, the sendee, or the sendee vehicle.
18. The method of claim 13, further comprising:
forecasting, by the at least one processor, a future breakdown of an identified vehicle based on the vehicle profile of the identified vehicle, wherein the forecast of the future breakdown includes at least a breakdown characteri stic of the identified vehicl e and a vehicle location during the forecasted breakdown.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising:
determining, by the at least one processor and based on the vehicle location and a breakdown characteristic of the vehicle, a service to treat the future breakdown, and a service vehicle from a plurality of service vehicles to render the service
20. A m ethod com pri si ng :
receiving, by a computing device having at least one processor, a request to forecast a future breakdown of a consumer vehicle,
identifying, by the at least one processor and from a plurality of stored vehicle profiles, a vehicle profile based on a vehicle identification of the consumer vehicle;
determining, by the at least one processor and from the identified vehicle profile and for each of a plurality of vehicles represented by the vehicle profile, one or more of a breakdown characteristic, a service, and a vehicle location during a past breakdown,
forecasting, by the at least one processor, a future breakdown of the consumer vehicle based on the determined breakdown characteristic, the service, and the vehicle location for each of the plurality of vehicles represented by the vehicle profile, wherein the forecast of the future breakdown includes at least a breakdown characteristic of the consumer vehicle and a vehicle location during the forecasted breakdown.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising:
determining, by the at least one processor and based on the vehicle location and a breakdown characteristic of the vehicle, a sendee to treat the future breakdown, and a sendee vehicle from a plurality of sendee vehicles to render the sendee.
</claims>
</document>
