<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01G25/16,G01N33/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROBERT BOSCH (AUSTRALIA)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARR, LIAM
READER, JESSE
VAN OIRSOUW, HARRIE
VERGERS, PHIL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69721506
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SENSOR-BASED AUTO-CALIBRATION OF SOIL-MOISTURE LEVELS
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for soil moisture sensing is provided. The method and system includes determining, over a predetermined time period, a sequence of two or more soil moisture measurements from one or more sensors at one or more soil depths. The predetermined time period includes one or more moisture uptake events in the soil and/or one or more moisture release events in the soil to thereby determine a minimum soil moisture value and a maximum soil moisture value for the soil.
</abstract>

<claims>
The claims defining the invention are as follows
1. A method for soil moisture sensing including: determining, over a predetermined time period, a sequence of two or more soil moisture measurements from one or more sensors at one or more soil depths, the predetermined time period including one or more moisture uptake events in the soil and/or one or more moisture release events in the soil thereby determining a minimum soil moisture value and a maximum soil moisture value for the soil.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein one or more sensors are provided at one or more geographic locations defining a geographic area, thereby providing soil moisture sensing over the geographic area.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein the minimum soil moisture value is greater than or equal to a permanent wilting point (PWP).
4. The method of claim 1 , wherein the maximum soil moisture value is less than or equal to the field capacity of the soil.
5. The method of claim 1 , wherein the predetermined time period further includes one or more of the following soil moisture response periods:
an absorption below refill period (A);
an absorption between refill and full period (B);
a soaking/flooding period (C);
a runoff period (D);
a drying from wet period (E);
a drying from dry period (F); or
a drying below refill period (G).
6. The method of any one of the preceding claims, further including the step of determining the rate of change of soil moisture over the predetermined time period.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the method further includes the step of: estimating which of the soil moisture response periods A-G applies to a given geographical location, at a given point in time.
8. The method of claim 7, further including the step of estimating the duration of time until the refill point will be reached, for one or more geographical areas.
9. The method of any one of the preceding claims, further including the step of determining an estimate of soil moisture capacity at a geographical location based on the sequence of two or more soil moisture measurements.
10. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the one or more sensors are of different type.
1 1. The method of any one of the preceding claims, further including the step of using an external data source in combination with the sequence of two or more soil moisture measurements.
12. The method of claim 1 1 , wherein the external data includes one or more of satellite data, or data from other sensors, data from existing soil models.
13. The method of any one of the preceding claims, further including the step of determining the absence of, or error in the sequence of two or more measurements, at one or more depths at one or more time periods at a specific geographical location.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the absence of, or error in the sequence of two or more measurements is determined by one or more of: an error indication returned from the sensor; the sensor returning a physically implausible reading, the sensor returning a reading outside the defined measurement range of the sensor; or the sensor returning a reading inconsistent with other sensor readings proximate in soil depth, geographical location, or time.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the method further includes the step of identifying the absence of, or error in the one or more measurements, at one or more depths at one or more time periods at a specific geographical location.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the method further includes the step of interpolating data in the absence of, or error in the one or more measurements, at one or more depths at one or more time periods at a specific geographical location.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the method further includes the step of determining a confidence metric of the one or more measurements at one more depths based on one or more earlier measurements.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein, based on the confidence metric, one or more measurements are excluded.
19. The method of claim 1 , wherein the method further includes the step of normalising the sensor soil moisture data to a nominal data range, using consistent units.
20. The method of claim 1 , wherein the method further includes the step of normalising the recorded geographical location of each soil-moisture measurement to a nominal geographical location, using a specified geographical location system and datum based on a nominal geographical location.
21. The method of claim 1 , wherein the method further includes the step of applying a low pass filter on the sensor soil moisture data, thereby removing variations at short time frames.
22. The method of claim 1 , wherein the method further includes the step of progressively improving the accuracy of the minimum soil moisture value and the maximum soil moisture value by determining over a number of further predetermined time periods, a sequence of two or more soil moisture measurements from one or more sensors at one or more soil depths, the predetermined time period including one or more moisture uptake events in the soil and/or one or more moisture release events in the soil thereby determining a minimum soil moisture value and a maximum soil moisture value for the soil.
23. The method of claim 1 , wherein the method further includes the step of recalibrating the one or more sensors, continuously or at intervals, in order to adapt to changes in soil moisture profile, thereby maintaining the accuracy of the minimum soil moisture value and the maximum soil moisture value.
24. A system for soil moisture sensing including:
one or more sensors and a controller in data communication with the one or more sensors, the controller configured to:
determine, over a predetermined time period, a sequence of two or more soil moisture measurements from the one or more sensors at one or more soil depths, the predetermined time period including one or more moisture uptake events in the soil and/or one or more moisture release events in the soil thereby determining a minimum soil moisture value and a maximum soil moisture value for the soil.
25. The method of Claim 1 , wherein one or more machine-learning models are established and trained on one or more time sequences of soil moisture data labelled with features, including one or more of: (features A to G), minimum soil moisture value, maximum soil moisture value, full point, refill point, such that the model attains a desired degree of accuracy and stability in estimating which soil-moisture response periods A to G applies at a given time, and/or estimating a minimal soil moisture value and/or a maximum soil moisture value for the soil.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein one or more machine-learning models are used to estimate a minimal soil moisture value and/or a maximum soil moisture value for the soil based on a sequence of two or more soil moisture measurements from one or more sensors at one or more depths.
27. The method of claim 25 or 26, wherein one or more machine-learning models are used to estimate which of the soil moisture response features A to G applies to a given geographical location, at a given period of time.
28. The method of any one of claims 25 to 27, wherein one or more machine learning models are used to estimate the duration of time until the refill point will be reached, for one or more geographical areas.
29. The method of any one of claims 25 to 28, wherein one or more machine learning models are used to estimate soil moisture capacity at a geographical location based on the sequence of two or more soil moisture measurements.
30. The method of any one of claims 25 to 29, wherein unsupervised machine learning is used, continuously or periodically, to refine parameters of one or more of the machine learning models to improve a desired characteristic based on a sequence of soil moisture data measurements from one or more sensors at one or more depths in one or more geographical locations.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein unsupervised machine learning is used, continuously or periodically, to improve the accuracy of classification of soil moisture measurements into features A to G.
32. The method of claim 30, wherein unsupervised machine learning is used, continuously or periodically, to improve the accuracy of estimation of maximum and/or minimum soil moisture values and/or full point and/or refill point.
</claims>
</document>
