<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/024,A61B5/0245,A61B5/0456,A61B7/00,A61B7/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AUSCULSCIENCES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CASTELINO, ROBIN F.
GLOAG, DAVID
TELENKOV, SERGEY A.
VERNALIS, MARINA
BOOTH, Brian J.
USTA, Fatma
TAJI, Bahareh
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72941420
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDICAL DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
An auscultatory sound signal from at least one auscultatory sound-or-vibration sensor is segmented into a plurality of associated heart cycle segments responsive to associated R-peak locations of an electrographic envelope signal representing an envelope response to an even power of an associated electrographic signal from an ECG sensor. A representation an envelope responsive to an even power of said auscultatory sound signal within said at least one heart cycle is locally modeled about at least a second peak to provide for locating the start of diastole of said at least one heart cycle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal, comprising:
a. receiving an electrographic signal from an ECG sensor;
b. generating an electrographic envelope signal representing an envelope responsive to an even power of said electrographic signal;
c. locating a plurality of peaks of said electrographic envelope signal corresponding to a corresponding plurality of R-peaks of said electrographic signal, wherein the operation of locating said plurality of peaks of said electrographic envelope signal comprises: i. determining a plurality of maximum values of said electrographic envelope signal, and a corresponding associated plurality of times of occurrence, for each of a plurality of temporal windows that are separated in time from an adjacent one another by a hop period;
ii. determining from said plurality of maximum values of said electrographic envelope signal, at said corresponding associated plurality of times of occurrence, a set of maximum values and corresponding times for which each value of said set of maximum values is less than a first threshold and greater than a second threshold; iii. determining a plurality of heart rates responsive to said corresponding times associated with each adjacent-in-time pair of maximum values of said set of maximum values;
iv. selecting from said each adjacent-in-time pair of maximum values of said set of maximum values at least one adjacent-in-time pair of maximum values of said set of maximum values for which a heart rate of said plurality of heart rates is greater than a first fraction less than unity times a median value of said plurality of heart rates and for which said heart rate of said plurality of heart rates is less than a first factor greater than unity times said median value of said plurality of heart rates, wherein the operation of selecting from said each adjacent-in-time pair of maximum values of said set of maximum values provides for locating said plurality of peaks of said electrographic envelope signal corresponding to said corresponding plurality of Rpeaks of said electrographic signal;
d. receiving at least one auscultatory sound signal from a corresponding at least one auscultatory sound-or-vibration sensor; and
e. segmenting said at least one auscultatory sound signal into at least one heart-cycle segment responsive to said plurality of peaks of said electrographic envelope signal.
2. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 1, further comprising for each one said at least one heart-cycle segment:
a. generating an auscultatory envelope signal representing an envelope responsive to an even power of said auscultatory sound signal within said one said at least one heart-cycle segment;
b. locating first and second peaks of said auscultatory envelope signal corresponding to respective first and second heart sounds;
c. generating a local mathematical model of at least said second peak of said auscultatory envelope signal, wherein said local mathematical model comprises a quadratic equation; and
d. locating first and second roots of said local mathematical model so as to provide for determining an associated start of diastole of said one said at least one heart-cycle segment.
3. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2 further comprising filtering said electrographic signal with a low pass filter prior the operation of generating said electrographic envelope signal.
4. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, further comprising normalizing said electrographic signal prior the operation of generating said electrographic envelope signal.
5. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, wherein each sample of said electrographic envelope signal comprises a sum of products within a corresponding sliding window of time associated with said sample of said electrographic envelope signal, each product of said sum of products comprises an element multiplied by a natural logarithm of said element, wherein said element comprises a value of a corresponding sample of said electrographic signal raised to a fourth power, and said corresponding sample of said electrographic signal is within said sliding window of time.
6. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, further comprising validating each peak of said plurality of peaks of said electrographic envelope signal, wherein the operation of validating said plurality of peaks of said electrographic envelope signal comprises at least one comparison operation selected from the group consisting of comparing a duration of time between said peak and a next subsequent peak with a first threshold, and comparing an absolute magnitude difference between a magnitude of said peak and a median value of corresponding magnitudes of said plurality of peaks with a second threshold; and responsive to said at least one comparison operation, determining whether or not to ignore said peak for purposes of subsequent operations.
7. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, further comprising filtering said at least one auscultatory sound signal with a low pass filter prior the operation of generating said auscultatory envelope signal.
8. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, further comprising filtering said at least one auscultatory sound signal with a Savitzky-Golay filter prior the operation of generating said auscultatory envelope signal.
9. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, wherein each sample of said auscultatory envelope signal comprises a sum of products within a corresponding sliding window of time associated with said sample of said auscultatory envelope signal, each product of said sum of products comprises an element multiplied by a natural logarithm of said element, wherein said element comprises a value of a corresponding sample of said auscultatory sound signal raised to a second power, and said corresponding sample of said auscultatory sound signal is within said sliding window of time.
10. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, further comprising smoothing said auscultatory envelope signal prior to the operation of locating said first and second peaks of said auscultatory envelope signal, wherein the operation of smoothing said auscultatory envelope signal comprises filtering said auscultatory envelope signal with a filter selected from the group consisting of a moving average filter and a
Savitzky-Golay smoothing filter.
11. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, wherein the operation of locating said first and second peaks of said auscultatory envelope signal comprises:
a. comparing said auscultatory envelope signal with an adjustable threshold;
b. locating peak values of said auscultatory envelope signal in excess of said adjustable threshold; and
c. adjusting said adjustable threshold until only two said peak values of said auscultatory envelope signal are located in excess of said adjustable threshold for said one said at least one heart-cycle segment.
12. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, further comprising validating said first and second peaks of said auscultatory envelope signal responsive to a comparison of a duration of time between said first and second peaks of said auscultatory envelope signal in comparison with a threshold.
13. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, wherein the operation of generating said local mathematical model comprises: a. selecting a pair of points of said auscultatory envelope signal spanning in time a peak of said auscultatory envelope signal selected from the group consisting of said first peak of said auscultatory envelope signal and said second peak of said auscultatory envelope signal, wherein each point of said pair of points of said auscultatory envelope signal is selected so that a corresponding associated magnitude of auscultatory envelope signal is not in excess of a fraction of a magnitude of said peak of said auscultatory envelope signal; and
b. mathematically fitting a quadratic function of time to a set of points comprising said pair of points of said auscultatory envelope signal and to said peak of said auscultatory envelope signal.
14. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, wherein said associated start of diastole is associated with a later-occurring root of said first and second roots of said local mathematical model of said second peak of said auscultatory envelope signal.
15. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, wherein a region of diastole extends from said associated start of diastole until an end of said one said at least one heart-cycle segment, further comprising analyzing said region of diastole of said auscultatory sound signal associated with said one said at least one heart-cycle segment to identify whether or not one or more outliers are present in said auscultatory sound signal.
16. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, wherein a region of diastole extends from said associated start of diastole until an end of said one said at least one heart-cycle segment, further comprising analyzing said region of diastole of said auscultatory sound signal associated with said one said at least one heart-cycle segment to identify whether or not said auscultatory sound signal exceeds one or more noise thresholds.
17. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, wherein a region of diastole extends from said associated start of diastole until an end of said one said at least one heart-cycle segment, further comprising normalizing said region of diastole of said auscultatory sound signal with respect to a magnitude of said second peak of said auscultatory envelope signal.
18. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, wherein a region of diastole extends from said associated start of diastole until an end of said one said at least one heart-cycle segment, further comprising:
a. calculating a maximum value of a plurality of mean power levels, wherein each mean power level of said plurality of mean power levels corresponds to a power level of said auscultatory sound signal within a sliding window of a plurality of sliding windows within said region of diastole of said auscultatory sound signal, and different mean power levels of said plurality of mean power levels correspond to different sliding windows of said plurality of sliding windows; and
b. comparing said maximum value of said plurality of mean power levels with a threshold to determine whether or not to subsequently process said one said at least one heart-cycle segment.
19. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 2, wherein a region of diastole extends from said associated start of diastole until an end of said one said at least one heart-cycle segment, and said at least one heart-cycle segment comprises a plurality of heart-cycle segments, further comprising synchronizing each of said plurality of heart-cycle segments with respect to said associated start of diastole.
20. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 19, further comprising normalizing an associated time period of each said region of diastole of said plurality of heart-cycle segments with respect to one of said plurality of heart-cycle segments.
21. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 20, wherein said one of said plurality of heart-cycle segments is the slowest of said plurality of heart-cycle segments.
22. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 20, further comprising interpolating one or more of said plurality of heart-cycle segments so as to provide for a uniform effective sampling rate for each of said plurality of heart-cycle segments.
23. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 1, wherein a duration of each temporal window of said plurality of temporal windows is sufficient to span a single heart cycle.
24. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 1, wherein said first threshold is a second factor in excess of unity times a median value of said plurality of maximum values of said electrographic envelope signal over a period of time spanning a plurality of heat cycles, and a value of said second factor is sufficient so that the values of at least one pair of said set of maximum values associated with at least one heart cycle of said plurality of heat cycles are each less than said first threshold.
25. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 1, wherein said second threshold is a second fraction less then unity times a median value of said plurality of maximum values of said electrographic envelope signal, and a value of said second fraction is sufficient so that the values of at least one pair of said set of maximum values associated with at least one heart cycle of said plurality of heat cycles are greater than said second threshold.
26. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 1, wherein the operation of selecting from said each adjacent-in-time pair of maximum values of said set of maximum values is bypassed if a time difference between said corresponding times associated with said adjacent-in-time pair of maximum values is less than a third threshold.
27. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 26, wherein said third threshold is in excess of a heart-cycle period corresponding to a maximum expected heart rate.
28. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 1, wherein said first fraction is about 0.6 and said first factor is about 1.4.
29. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal, comprising:
a. receiving an electrographic signal from an ECG sensor;
b. generating an electrographic envelope signal representing an envelope responsive to an even power of said electrographic signal;
c. locating a plurality of peaks of said electrographic envelope signal corresponding to a corresponding plurality of R-peaks of said electrographic signal;
d. receiving at least one auscultatory sound signal from a corresponding at least one auscultatory sound-or-vibration sensor;
e. segmenting said at least one auscultatory sound signal into at least one heart-cycle segment responsive to said plurality of peaks of said electrographic envelope signal; and f. for at least one said at least one heart-cycle segment:
i. identifying a temporal region within each said at least one said at least one heartcycle segment, wherein a location of said temporal region is responsive to a duration of said at least one said at least one heart-cycle segment; and ii. determining at least one swing value responsive to a difference between maximum and minimum amplitude values of said auscultatory sound signal within at least one temporal segment of said temporal region.
30. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 29, further comprising utilizing said at least one first swing value as a first feature input set to a classifier to provide for determining whether or not a patient associated with said auscultatory sound signal likely exhibits coronary -artery disease.
31. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 30, wherein said temporal region is associated with at least one sound selected from the group consisting of an S3 sound, an S4 sound and an S5 sound.
32. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 31, wherein said temporal region is located relative to a start of diastasis within diastole of said heart-cycle segment.
33. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 32, wherein said start of diastasis is assumed to occur at a temporal offset from a start of said heart-cycle segment, with said temporal offset being given in milliseconds by 350 plus 0.3 times the quantity (TRR-350), wherein TRR is the duration of said heart-cycle segment in milliseconds.
34. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 32, wherein said temporal region either spans said start of diastasis or terminates at said start of diastasis.
35. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 32, wherein a duration of said temporal region is between 80 and 120 milliseconds.
36. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 32, further comprising:
a. generating a Short-Time Fourier Transform of said auscultatory sound signal within said temporal region; and
b. utilizing at least one frequency-domain feature from or responsive to said Short-Time
Fourier Transform of said auscultatory sound signal within said temporal region as a second feature input set to said classifier to provide for determining whether or not said patient associated with said auscultatory sound signal likely exhibits coronary-artery disease.
37. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 31, wherein said temporal region is located at the end of said heart-cycle segment.
38. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 37, wherein a duration of said temporal region is between 10 and 25 percent of the duration of said heartcycle segment.
39. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 37, further comprising prior to the operation of determining said at least one first swing value, generating a filtered auscultatory sound signal by filtering said auscultatory sound signal within said heart-cycle segment using a filter having a cutoff frequency the provides for passing either an audible range of frequencies or passing an inaudible range of frequencies below said audible range of frequencies, wherein said at least one first swing value is determined responsive to said filtered auscultatory sound signal.
40. A method of segmenting an auscultatory sound signal as recited in claim 37, further comprising:
a. determining a second swing value responsive to a difference between maximum and minimum amplitude values of said auscultatory sound signal during an S2 sound interval at the beginning of diastole of said heart-cycle segment;
b. determining a ratio of said first swing value divided by said second swing value as a measure of a likelihood that said patient exhibits said S4 sound; and
c. utilizing said ratio of said first swing value divided by said second swing value as a third feature input set to said classifier to provide for determining whether or not a patient associated with said auscultatory sound signal likely exhibits coronary-artery disease.
</claims>
</document>
