<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/02,A61B6/03,A61B90/00,A61B90/30,G01T1/164,H01L27/146
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIHAILESCU, LUCIAN
ZITEO
COSMA, Andrei Claudiu
</assignee>

<inventors>
QUINLAN, MICHAEL
MIHAILESCU, LUCIAN
COSMA, Andrei Claudiu
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72751528
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR HIGH PERFORMANCE AND VERSATILE MOLECULAR IMAGING
</title>

<abstract>
Improved imaging devices and methods. A portable SPECT imaging device may co-register with imaging modalities such as ultrasound. Gamma camera panels including gamma camera sensors may be connected to a mechanical arm. A coded aperture mask may be placed in front of a gamma-ray photon sensor and used to construct a high-resolution three-dimensional map of radioisotope distributions inside a patient, which can be generated by scanning the patient from a reduced range of directions around the patient and with radiation sensors placed in close proximity to this patient. Increased imaging sensitivity and resolution is provided. The SPECT imaging device can be used to guide medical interventions, such as biopsies and ablation therapies, and can also be used to guide surgeries.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A portable Single Photon Emission Computer Tomography (SPECT) imaging system to scan a patient, the system comprising:
a Single Photon Emission Computer Tomography controller unit, the controller unit comprising a computer;
a mechanical jointed arm connected to the controller unit, wherein the jointed arm can be positioned to a desired location by a user through applying direct force;
at least one gamma camera panel connected to the jointed arm, wherein the gamma camera panel comprises gamma camera sensors with position and energy sensing resolution, wherein the gamma camera panel provides an imaging field of view that is larger than 15 degrees;
a camera mounted in such a way as to observe an overall area of a patient; and at least one processor and a memory operatively coupled with the at least one processor, the camera, and the gamma camera sensors, the memory having instructions for execution by the at least one processor that cause the at least one processor to:
read a first gamma-ray photon sensing event received from the gamma camera sensors;
provide a first position and orientation of the gamma camera panel with respect to a body of the patient;
co-register the first gamma-ray photon sensing event to the body of the patient using the first position and orientation;
read a second gamma-ray photon sensing event received from the gamma sensors;
provide a second position and orientation of the gamma camera panel with respect to the body of the patient,
co-register the second gamma-ray photon sensing event to the body of the patient using the second position and orientation; and
reconstruct a 3D distribution of gamma-ray emitting radioisotopes inside the patient by using first and second co-registered sensing events.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the jointed arm is a computer controllable 6-axis robotic arm.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory further has instructions that cause the at least one processor to actuate the mechanical arm to perform a SPECT scan.
4. The system of claim 3, further comprising wheels actuated by a motor coupled to the at least one processor and the memory, wherein the wheels are actuated to move the SPECT system during a scan of the patient.
5. The system of claim 3, further comprising a proximity sensor mounted on the panel, wherein the proximity sensor is operationally coupled to the at least one processor and the memory, wherein movement of the panels with respect to the patient is modified depending on proximity sensor data obtained by the proximity sensor.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory further has instructions that cause the at least one processor to:
create, using computer vision, 3D models of the body of the patient at regular intervals; and
detect body changes and deformations taking place from one 3D model of the body to another.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the memory further has instructions that cause the at least one processor to inform the user of a significant body change that may require a reset of the SPECT scan.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the memory further has instructions that cause the at least one processor to:
determine and assign a first 3D patient body model to a first sensor detection event,
determine and assign a second 3D patient body model to a second sensor detection event,
create a tissue deformation model from first to second 3D patient body models, and
reconstruct a 3D distribution of gamma-ray emitting radioisotopes inside the patient by using first and second sensing events and the tissue deformation model.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory further has instructions that cause the at least one processor to stop movement of the jointed arm and gamma camera panels to avoid collisions between components of the SPECT imaging system with the body of the patient.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the memory further has instructions that cause the at least one processor to:
monitor space in a projected path of the gamma camera panels for other objects or people, and
stop the movement of the jointed arm and gamma camera panels to avoid collisions between any components of the SPECT imaging system with the other objects or people.
11. The system of claim 1, further comprising:
an ultrasound probe;
a tracking system, wherein the tracking system is used to determine the position and orientation of the ultrasound probe with respect to a body of the patient;
a visualization device;
at least one processor and a memory operatively coupled with the ultrasound probe, tracking system, a memory storing a 3D distribution of gamma-ray emitting radioisotopes co-registered to the patient or to a point of reference, and the visualization device, the memory having instructions for execution by the at least one processor that cause the at least one processor to:
track the ultrasound probe with respect to the patient or with respect to a point of reference;
determine a co-registration between the 3D distribution of gamma-ray emitting radioisotopes and an ultrasound scan using ultrasound probe tracking data obtained by the ultrasound probe; and
deliver to the visualization device an image that comprises an augmentation of features of the 3D distribution of gamma-ray emitting radioisotopes onto the ultrasound scan.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the tracking system is selected from a group containing an optical tracking system, an electro-mechanical tracking system, an electromagnetic tracking system, an ultrasound tracking system, a depth imaging tracking system, a combination thereof.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the memory further has instructions that cause the at least one processor to:
read a SPECT image dataset from a memory,
create a model of movements of features in the image from a first ultrasound frame to a second ultrasound frame,
create a changed SPECT image based on the model of movements of features in the image, and
augment the changed SPECT image onto the second ultrasound frame.
14. A real-time multi-modality portable Single Photon Emission Computer Tomography (SPECT) imaging system to scan a patient, the system comprising:
a SPECT controller unit, unit comprising at least a computer; a mechanical jointed arm connected to the controller unit, wherein the jointed arm can be positioned to a desired location by a user through applying direct force;
at least one gamma camera panel connected to the jointed arm, wherein the gamma camera panel comprises gamma camera sensors with position and energy sensing resolution;
an ultrasound transducer positionable in such a way as to have a field of view that at least partially overlaps with a gamma camera field of view;
a tracking system able to provide tracking information about a relative position of the ultrasound transducer with respect to the gamma camera;
a visualization device; and
at least one processor and a memory operatively coupled with the gamma camera sensors, ultrasound transducer, tracking system and visualization device, the memory having instructions for execution by the at least one processor that cause the at least one processor to:
read a first gamma-ray photon sensing event received from the gamma sensors;
read a second gamma-ray photon sensing event received from the gamma sensors; reconstruct a 3D distribution of gamma-ray emitting radioisotopes inside the patient by using first and second sensing events;
determine a co-registration between the ultrasound transducer and the gamma sensors using the tracking information;
determine a co-registration between the 3D distribution of gamma-ray emitting radioisotopes and an ultrasound scan using the co-registration between the ultrasound transducer and the gamma sensors; and
deliver to the visualization device an image that comprises an augmentation of the 3D distribution of gamma-ray emitting radioisotopes onto the ultrasound scan by using the co-registration between the 3D distribution of gammaray emitting radioisotopes and an ultrasound scan.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the gamma camera panel provides an imaging field of view that is larger than 15 degrees, the imaging field of view being defined as a range of angles, with respect to a direction at which the gamma camera has maximum imaging sensitivity, from which gamma photons can be detected and imaged by gamma sensors comprised by the gamma camera panel with a sensitivity larger than a hundredth the maximum imaging sensitivity.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the reconstructed 3D distribution of gamma-ray emitting radioisotopes is characterized by a finite depth imaging resolution of less than 20 millimeters (mm) from an essentially static position of the gamma camera panel with respect to the patient along the direction at which the gamma camera is most sensitive for a range of distances that cover at least 50mm.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the ultrasound transducer is affixed to a body of the patient without a user holding the transducer.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein
at least one processor and a memory operatively coupled with the gamma camera sensors, ultrasound transducer, tracking system, the memory having instructions for execution by the at least one processor that cause the at least one processor to:
read a gamma-ray photon sensing event received from the gamma sensors, thereby detecting a gamma-ray photon; associate a ultrasound image map with the gamma-ray photon sensing event;
provide a tissue model from the ultrasound image map;
create a gamma photon attenuation model from the tissue model; and use the gamma photon attenuation model to determine attenuation probabilities inside the patient for the detected gamma-ray photon.
19. The system of claim 14, comprising first and second gamma camera panels mounted at a distal end of the jointed arm, wherein the panels can be actuated so that a distance between the panels can be modified, wherein the panels can be actuated so that the relative angle between the panels can be modified, and wherein the panels can be separated to allow another medical instrument to be positioned between the panels.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the medical instrument is an ultrasound probe.
21. The system of claim 19, wherein the medical instrument is a biopsy needle.
22. The system of claim 19, wherein the medical instrument is an ablation treatment device.
23. A portable Single Photon Emission Computer Tomography (SPECT) imaging system to scan a body part of a patient, the system comprising:
a SPECT controller unit, the controller unit comprising at least a computer; a mechanical jointed arm connected to the controller unit;
a gamma camera panel connected to the jointed arm, wherein the gamma camera panel comprises gamma camera sensors with position and energy sensing resolution, wherein the gamma camera panel provides an imaging field of view that is larger than 15 degrees, the imaging field of view being defined as a range of angles, with respect to a direction at which the gamma camera has maximum imaging sensitivity, from which gamma photons can be detected and imaged by gamma sensors comprised by the gamma camera panel with a sensitivity larger than a hundredth the maximum imaging sensitivity; and
a tactile pressure sensor mounted on the panel, wherein the tactile pressure sensor is operationally coupled to at least one processor and memory, wherein movement of the panels with respect to the patient is modified depending on tactile pressure sensor data obtained by the tactile pressure sensor.
24. The system of claim 23, further comprising a second gamma camera panel mounted at a distal end of the jointed arm, wherein the panels can be actuated so that a distance between the panels can be modified, wherein the panels can be actuated so that a relative angle between the panels can be modified, and wherein the panels can be positioned essentially face to face and to allow a body part of the patient to be positioned between the panel faces.
25. A system, comprising:
a gamma-ray photon sensor with energy and position resolution sensing capability, the gamma-ray photon sensor providing positions of photon interactions;
a coded aperture mask placed in front of the photon sensor,
wherein the mask comprises photon attenuating mask pixel elements shaped as bifrustums,
wherein a physical space between bifrustum mask pixel elements that have a common edge is partially or completely occupied by a material, and
wherein the mask creates an imaging field of view in front of the sensor;
at least one processor; and
a memory operatively coupled with the sensor and the processor, the memory storing instructions for execution by the at least one processor that cause the processor to:
project a position of a first photon interaction onto a plane of reference to create a first projected interaction point;
retrieve photon attenuation coefficients stored in the memory for the first projected interaction point for directions towards the imaging field of view;
project the position of a second photon interaction onto a plane of reference to create a second projected interaction point;
retrieve photon attenuation coefficients stored in the memory for the second projected interaction point for directions towards the imaging field of view; and
reconstruct an image of a gamma-ray source using the retrieved attenuation coefficients for the first and second photon interactions.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the sensor provides the position of the photon interaction with resolution better than 4 mm in all three dimensions. 27. The system of claim 25, wherein the coded aperture mask is made out a material of density higher than 10 grams per cubic centimeter (g/cc). 28. The system of claim 25, wherein mask pixel elements are shaped as bifrustums that have at least a side face making an angle larger than 10 degrees with respect to the normal on the bifrustum base. 29. The system of claim 25, wherein the material between bifrustum mask pixel elements is of density higher than 10 grams per cubic centimeter (g/cc). 30. The system of claim 25, wherein the bifrustum mask pixel elements have a base selected from a group containing: a rectangular base, a triangular base, a hexagonal base. 31. The system of claim 25, wherein a shape of bifrustum mask pixel elements is approximated by mask pixel elements with curved side faces. 32. The system of claim 25, wherein the coded aperture mask expands across multiple planes. 33. The system of claim 25, further comprising photon attenuating shields at directions around the sensor not covered by the coded aperture mask. 34. The system of claim 25, wherein the coded aperture mask has an opening fraction, defined as fraction of an area of non-attenuating mask area to a total area of the mask, to span from .1% to 70%. 35. The system of claim 25, wherein the coded aperture mask is selfsupporting. 36. The system of claim 25, wherein the coded aperture mask is built of multiple layers stacked together to approximate the bifrustum shaping of the mask pixels.
37. A method, comprising: projecting a position of a first photon interaction detected by a gamma-ray photon sensor onto a first plane of reference to create a first projected interaction point, wherein the gamma-ray photon sensor has energy and position resolution sensing capability, the gamma-ray photon sensor providing the position of photon interactions, wherein a coded aperture mask is placed in front of the photon sensor, wherein the mask comprises photon attenuating mask pixel elements shaped as bifrustums, wherein a physical space between bifrustum mask pixel elements that have a common edge is partially or completely occupied by a material, wherein the mask creates an imaging field of view in front of the sensor;
retrieving photon attenuation coefficients stored in a memory for the first projected interaction point for directions towards the imaging field of view;
projecting a position of a second photon interaction detected by the gammaray photon sensor onto a second plane of reference to create a second projected interaction point;
retrieving photon attenuation coefficients stored in the memory for the second projected interaction point for directions towards the imaging field of view; and
reconstructing an image of a gamma-ray source using the retrieved attenuation coefficients for the first and second photon interactions.
</claims>
</document>
