<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61K38/18,A61K48/00,C12N15/09,C12N15/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CEDARS-SINAI MEDICAL CENTER
YANG, AMY
AYALA-SARMIENTO, Alberto
</assignee>

<inventors>
BREUNIG, JOSHUA
DANIELPOUR, MOISE
KIM, GI BUM
YANG, AMY
AYALA-SARMIENTO, Alberto
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74040106
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR IN VIVO DUAL RECOMBINASE-MEDIATED CASSETTE EXCHANGE (dRMCE) AND DISEASE MODELS THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein are donor vectors and systems for use in dual recombinase-mediated cassette exchange. Also described herein are animal models and human cells for consistent, rigorous, and facile investigation of transgene expression. Further described herein are methods of screening for therapeutic drugs using these animal models, and methods of treatment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising:
a promoter-less donor vector, comprising:
a polyadenylation signal or transcription stop element upstream from a transgene or a nucleic acid encoding an RNA,
the transgene or nucleic acid encoding an RNA, and
paired recombinase recognition sites; and
one expression vector, comprising two genes encoding recombinases specific to the paired recombinase recognition sites, or
two expression vectors, the first expression vector comprising one gene encoding a first recombinase that is specific to one of the paired recombinase recognition sites, and the second expression vector comprising one gene encoding a second recombinase that is specific to the other of the paired recombinase recognition sites.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the promoter-less donor vector is selected from the group consisting of plasmid, viral vector, and bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC).
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the promoter-less donor vector comprises at least four polyadenylation signals upstream from the transgene or nucleic acid encoding the RNA.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the promoter-less donor vector further comprises a posttranscriptional regulatory element.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the promoter-less donor vector further comprises a polyadenylation signal downstream from the transgene or nucleic acid encoding the RNA.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the promoter-less donor vector further comprises an open reading frame (ORF) that begins with a splice acceptor.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the promoter-less donor vector further comprises a fluorescent reporter.
8. The system of claim 1 , wherein the viral vector is an adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the expression vector comprising recombinases are under tissuespecific promoters.
10. The system of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the paired recombinase recognition sites are loxP and flippase recognition target (FRT), and the recombinases are ere and flp.
11. The system of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the paired recombinase recognition sites are modified loxP and/or modified flippase recognition target (FRT), and the recombinases are ere and flp.
12. The system of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the paired recombinase recognition sites are VloxP and flippase recognition target (FRT), and the recombinases are VCre and Up.
13. The system of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the paired recombinase recognition sites are SloxP and flippase recognition target (FRT), and the recombinases are SCre and Up.
14. The system of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the recombinase is PhiC31 recombinase and the recombinase recognition sites are attB and attP.
15. The system of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the recombinase is Nigri, Panto, or Vika and recombinase recognition sites are nox, pox, and vox, respectively
16. The system of any one of claims 1-9, wherein one or both of the paired recombinase recognition sites comprise a mutation.
17. The system of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the RNA is siRNA, shRNA, sgRNA, IncRNA or miRNA.
18. The system of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the transgene or the RNA comprises disease associated mutations.
19. The system of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the transgene or the RNA comprise a gain-offunction (GOF) gene mutation, loss-of-function (LOF) gene mutation, or both.
20. The system of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the transgene comprises a factor that prevents apoptosis or promotes survival of a neuronal cell, increases the proliferation of a neuronal cell, or promotes differentiation of a neuronal cell.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the factor is a growth factor.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the growth factor comprises glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), neurturin, growth/differentiation factor (GDF) 5, mesencephalic astrocyte-derived neurotrophic factor (MANF), cerebral dopaminergic neurotrophic factor (CDNF), or combinations thereof.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein the growth factor comprises glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF).
24. The system of claim 1, wherein the promoter-less donor vector comprises:
PGK polyadenylation signal (pA);
trimerized SV40pA;
the transgene or nucleic acid encoding an RNA;
loxP and flippase recognition target (FRT);
a rabbit beta-globin pA; and
a woodchuck hepatitis virus post-transcriptional regulatory element (WPRE).
25. A promoter-less donor vector, comprising: a polyadenylation signal or transcription stop element upstream from a transgene or nucleic acid encoding an RNA;
the transgene or nucleic acid encoding an RNA; and
paired recombinase recognition sites.
26. The promoter-less donor vector of claim 25, wherein the promoter-less donor vector is selected from the group consisting of plasmid, viral vector, and bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC).
27. The promoter-less donor vector of claim 25, comprising at least four polyadenylation signals upstream from the transgene or nucleic acid encoding the RNA.
28. The promoter-less donor vector of claim 25, further comprising a post-transcriptional regulatory element.
29. The promoter-less donor vector of claim 25, further comprising a polyadenylation signal downstream from the transgene or nucleic acid encoding the RNA.
30. The promoter-less donor vector of claim 25, wherein the transgene or RNA is selected from the group consisting of an oncogene, loss-of-function (LOF) mutation of a tumor suppressor gene, gain-of-function (GOF) mutation of a proto-oncogene, pseudogene, siRNA, shRNA, sgRNA, IncRNA, miRNA, epigenetic modification, non-coding genetic or epigenetic abnormality associated with human disease, and combinations thereof.
31. The promoter-less donor vector of claim 25, wherein the transgene comprises a factor that prevents apoptosis or promotes survival of a neuronal cell, increases the proliferation of a neuronal cell, or promotes differentiation of a neuronal cell.
32. The promoter-less donor vector of claim 31 , wherein the factor is a growth factor.
33. The promoter-less donor vector of claim 32, wherein the growth factor comprises glial cell linederived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), neurturin, growth/differentiation factor (GDF) 5, mesencephalic astrocyte-derived neurotrophic factor (MANF) or cerebral dopaminergic neurotrophic factor (CDNF), or combinations thereof.
34. The promoter-less donor vector of claim 32, wherein the growth factor comprises glial cell linederived neurotrophic factor (GDNF).
35. The promoter-less donor vector of claim 25, wherein one or both of the paired recombinase recognition sites comprise a mutation.
36. The promoter-less donor vector of claim 25, wherein the viral vector is an adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector.
37. The promoter-less donor vector of claim 25, comprising:
PGK polyadenylation signal (pA);
trimerized SV40pA; a transgene or nucleic acid encoding an RNA;
loxP and flippase recognition target (FRT);
a rabbit beta-globin pA; and
a woodchuck hepatitis virus post-transcriptional regulatory element (WPRE).
38. A method of genetic manipulation of a mammalian cell, comprising:
transfecting or transducing the mammalian cell with the system of any one of claims 1-24.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein the mammalian cell is a human cell, the system targets an AAVS1 locus, HI 1 locus, or HPRT1 locus, and the method is an in vitro or ex vivo method.
40. The method of claim 38, wherein the mammalian cell is a mouse cell and the system targets a ROSA26 locus, Hippl 1 locus, Tigre locus, ColAl locus, or Hprt locus.
41. The method of claim 38, further comprising administering to the cell one or more recombinase enzymes.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein the one or more recombinase enzymes comprise, a Cre recombinase, a flippase recombinase, a Cre and a flippase recombinase, a Nigri recombinase, a Panto recombinase or a Vika recombinase.
43. The method of claim 38, wherein the mammalian cell comprises an embryonic stem cell, an adult stem cell, an induced pluripotent stem cell, or a tissue precursor cell.
44. A non-human animal model, comprising:
the non-human animal comprising a system of any one of claims 1 to 24, wherein the transgene or RNA is selected from the group consisting of an oncogene, lossof-function (LOF) mutation of a tumor suppressor gene, gain-of-function (GOF) mutation of a proto-oncogene, pseudogene, siRNA, shRNA, sgRNA, IncRNA, miRNA, epigenetic modification, non-coding genetic or epigenetic abnormality associated with human disease, and combinations thereof.
45. The non-human animal model of claim 44, wherein the non-human animal model is a personalized non-human animal model a human subject's cancer and the transgene or RNA is based on the human subject's cancer.
46. The non-human animal model of claim 44, wherein the non-human animal model is a personalized non-human animal model a human subject's disease or condition and the transgene or RNA is based on the human subject's disease or condition.
47. The non-human animal model of claim 44, comprising a gain of function mutation (GOF), a loss of function mutation (LOF), or both.
48. A method of generating the non-human animal model of claim 44, comprising:
transfecting or transducing the non-human animal model with the system of claim 1, wherein the transgene or RNA is selected from the group consisting of an oncogene, lossof-function (LOF) mutation of a tumor suppressor gene, gain-of-function (GOF) mutation of a proto-oncogene, pseudogene, siRNA, shRNA, sgRNA, IncRNA, miRNA, epigenetic modification, non-coding genetic or epigenetic abnormality associated with human disease, and combinations thereof.
49. A method of assessing the effects of a drug candidate, comprising:
providing the non-human animal model of claim 44;
administering the drug candidate to the non-human animal model; and
assessing the effects of the drug candidate on the non-human animal model.
50. A mammalian cell comprising the system of any one of claims 1 to 24 or the promoter-less donor vector of any one of claims 25 to 37.
51. The cell of claim 50, wherein the cell is a human cell.
52. The cell of claim 50, wherein the cell is a pluripotent cell.
53. The cell of claim 52, wherein the pluripotent cell is an induced pluripotent cell.
54. A method of delivering a gene product to an individual with a neurodegenerative disease or disorder comprising administering the mammalian cell of claim 50 to an individual in need thereof.
55. The method of claim 54, wherein the neurodegenerative disease or disorder comprises Parkinson' s
Disease, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), or Alzheimer's Disease.
56. The method of claim 54, wherein the neurodegenerative disease or disorder comprises Parkinson's Disease.
57. The method of claim 54, wherein the neurodegenerative disease or disorder comprises Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS).
58. A method of increasing a GDNF protein level in the brain of in an individual comprising administering the mammalian cell of claim 50 to the individual.
59. A mammalian cell comprising a genomic integrated transgene, wherein the genomic integrated transgene comprises a neurotrophic factor, and is integrated at a genomic site comprising a AAV S 1 locus, Hl l locus, or HPRT1 locus.
60. The mammalian cell of claim 59, wherein the cell is a human cell.
61. The mammalian cell of claim 60, wherein the human cell is an induced pluripotent stem cell.
62. The mammalian cell of any one of claims 59 to 61, wherein the neurotrophic factor comprises glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), neurturin, growth/differentiation factor (GDF) 5, mesencephalic astrocyte-derived neurotrophic factor (MANF), cerebral dopaminergic neurotrophic factor (CDNF), or combinations thereof.
63. The mammalian cell of claim 62, wherein the neurotrophic factor is GDNF.
64. The mammalian cell of any one of claims 59 to 61, wherein the neurotrophic factor is under the control of an inducible promoter.
65. The mammalian cell of claim 64, wherein the inducible promoter is a tetracycline inducible promoter.
66. The mammalian cell of claim 64 or 65, to wherein the neurotrophic factor and/or the inducible promoter are flanked by one or more of a recombinase recognition site, a tandem repeat of a transposable element, or an insulator sequence.
67. The mammalian cell of claim 66, wherein the neurotropic factor and/or the inducible promoter are flanked by paired recombinase recognition sites.
68. The mammalian cell of claim 67, wherein the paired recombinase recognition sites comprise a variant recombinase recognition site and a wild-type recombinase recognition site.
69. The mammalian cell of claim 67, wherein the variant recombinase recognition site exhibits reduced cleavage by a recombinase compared to the wild-type recombinase recognition site.
70. The mammalian cell of any one of claims 67 to 69, wherein the paired recombinase recognition sites comprise LoxP sites or FRT sites.
</claims>
</document>
