<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61K35/17,A61K39/395,A61P35/00,C07D401/02,C07D401/12,C07D513/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANCER RESEARCH TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITY OF LONDON
</assignee>

<inventors>
PEGGS, KARL
QUEZADA, SERGIO
SLEDZINSKA, Anna
JENNER, Richard
GALVEZ CANCINO, Felipe
VILA DE MUCHA, Maria
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67540158
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MODULATION OF T CELL CYTOTOXICITY AND RELATED THERAPY
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention provides an engineered T cell for use in a method of treatment of a proliferative disorder in a mammalian subject, wherein the T cell has been engineered (i) to overexpress BLIMP1 and/or (ii) to knock-out or decrease expression of BCL6. Further provided is a BCL6 inhibitor for use in a method of enhancing immunotherapy in a subject having a proliferative disorder. Also provided are related methods of treatment employing the engineered T cell and/or BCL6 inhibitor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An engineered T cell for use in a method of treatment of a proliferative disorder in a mammalian subject, wherein the T cell has been engineered (i) to overexpress BLIMP1 and/or (ii) to knock out or decrease expression of BCL6.
2. The engineered T cell for use of claim 1, wherein the T cell comprises a chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T), an engineered T cell receptor (TCR) T cell or a Neoantigen-reactive T Cell (NART) .
3. The engineered T cell for use of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the T cell is autologous to said subject.
4. The engineered T cell for use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the proliferative disorder comprises a solid tumour.
5. The engineered T cell for use according to claim 4, wherein the tumour is selected from bladder cancer, gastric cancer, oesophageal cancer, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, cervical cancer, ovarian cancer, endometrial cancer, kidney cancer, lung cancer, brain cancer, melanoma, lymphoma, small bowel cancers, leukaemia,
pancreatic cancer, hepatobiliary tumours, germ cell cancers, prostate cancer, head and neck cancers, thyroid cancer and sarcomas.
6. The engineered T cell for use according to claim 4, wherein the solid tumour comprises a melanoma or a sarcoma.
7. The engineered T cell for use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the engineered T cell has been engineered to knock-out or downregulate expression of BCL6.
8. The engineered T cell for use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the engineered T cell has been engineered to overexpress BLIMP-1.
9. The engineered T cell for use according to claim 7 or claim 8, wherein said BCL6 knock-out or downregulation and/or said BLIPM-1 overexpression has been engineered by CRISPR-mediated gene editing, transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs) transient downregulation using short hairpin RNA (shRNA), small interfering RNA (siRNA), microRNA (miRNA) or RNA constructs for overexpression.
10. The engineered T cell for use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said method of treatment further comprises simultaneous, sequential or separate administration of an immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy and/or a BCL6 inhibitor compound.
11. The engineered T cell for use according to claim 10, wherein said immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy comprises CTLA-4 blockade, PD-1 inhibition, PD-L1 inhibition, Lag-3 inhibition, Tim-3
inhibition, TIGIT inhibition and/or BTLA inhibition.
12. The engineered T cell for use according to claim 11, wherein said immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy comprises: ipilimumab, tremelimumab, nivolumab, pembrolizumab, atezolizumab, avelumab or durvalumab .
13. The engineered T cell for use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the engineered T cell comprises
Tisagenlecleucel or Axicabtagene ciloleucel, modified to overexpress BLIMP1 and/or to knock-out or decrease expression of BCL6.
14. The engineered T cell for use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the engineered T cell is a CD4+ T cell having cytotoxic activity and/or a CD8+ T cell having cytotoxic activity .
15. The engineered T cell for use according to any one of claims 10 to 14, wherein the BCL6 inhibitor compound is a BCL6 degrader.
16. A method of treatment of a proliferative disorder in a mammalian subject, comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of an engineered T cell to the subject in need thereof, wherein the T cell has been engineered (i) to overexpress BLIMP1 and/or (ii) to knock-out or decrease expression of BCL6.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the T cell comprises a chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T), an engineered T cell receptor (TCR) T cell or a Neoantigen-reactive T Cell (NAR-T) .
18. The method of claim 16 or claim 17, wherein the T cell is autologous to said subject.
19. The method according to any one of claims 16 to 18, wherein the proliferative disorder comprises a solid tumour.
20. The method according to claim 19, wherein the tumour is selected from bladder cancer, gastric cancer, oesophageal cancer, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, cervical cancer, ovarian cancer, endometrial cancer, kidney cancer, lung cancer, brain cancer, melanoma, lymphoma, small bowel cancers, leukemia, pancreatic cancer, hepatobiliary tumours, germ cell cancers, prostate cancer, head and neck cancers, thyroid cancer and sarcomas.
21. The method according to claim 19, wherein the solid tumour comprises a melanoma or a sarcoma.
22. The method according to any one of claims 16 to 21, wherein the T cell is engineered to knock-out or downregulate expression of BCL6 prior to being administered to the subject.
23. The method according to any one of claims 16 to 22, wherein the T cell is engineered to overexpress BLIMP-1 prior to being
administered to the subject.
24. The method according to claim 22 or claim 23, wherein said BCL6 knock-out or downregulation and/or said BLIPM-1 overexpression is engineered by CRISPR-mediated gene editing, transcription activator like effector nucleases (TALENs) transient downregulation using short hairpin RNA (shRNA), small interfering RNA (siRNA), microRNA (miRNA) or RNA constructs for overexpression.
25. The method according to any one of claims 16 to 24, wherein said method of treatment further comprises simultaneous, sequential or separate administration of an immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy and/or a BCL6 inhibitor to the subject.
26. The method according to claim 25, wherein said immune
checkpoint inhibitor therapy comprises CTLA-4 blockade, PD-1 inhibition, PD-L1 inhibition, Lag-3 inhibition, Tim-3 inhibition, TIGIT inhibition and/or BTLA inhibition.
27. The method according to claim 26, wherein said immune
checkpoint inhibitor therapy comprises: ipilimumab, tremelimumab, nivolumab, pembrolizumab, atezolizumab, avelumab or durvalumab.
28. The method according to any one of claims 16 to 27, wherein the engineered T cell is a CD4+ T cell having cytotoxic activity and/or a CD8+ T cell having cytotoxic activity.
29. The method according to any one of claims 25 to 28, wherein the BCL6 inhibitor is a BCL6 degrader.
30. A BCL6 inhibitor for use in a method of enhancing immunotherapy in a subject having a proliferative disorder.
31. The BCL6 inhibitor for use according to claim 30, wherein said immunotherapy comprises immune checkpoint inhibition, an anti-tumour vaccine or a T cell therapy.
32. The BCL6 inhibitor for use according to claim 31, wherein the T cell therapy comprises simultaneous, sequential or separate
administration of an engineered T cell as defined in any one of claims 1 to 15.
33. The BCL6 inhibitor for use according to any one of claims 30 to 32, wherein the proliferative disorder comprises a solid tumour.
34. The BCL6 inhibitor for use according to claim 33, wherein the tumour is selected from bladder cancer, gastric cancer, oesophageal cancer, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, cervical cancer, ovarian cancer, endometrial cancer, kidney cancer, lung cancer, brain cancer, melanoma, lymphoma, small bowel cancers, leukaemia,
pancreatic cancer, hepatobiliary tumours, germ cell cancers, prostate cancer, head and neck cancers, thyroid cancer and sarcomas.
35. The BCL6 inhibitor for use according to claim 33, wherein the solid tumour comprises a melanoma or a sarcoma.
36. The BCL6 inhibitor for use according to any one of claims 30 to
35, wherein the amount of BCL6 inhibitor administered to the subject is sufficient to enhance cytotoxic activity of CD4+ T cells and/or CD8+ T cells in the subject.
37. The BCL6 inhibitor for use according to any one of claims 30 to
36, wherein the proliferative disorder comprises a tumour that does not overexpress BCL6.
38. The BCL6 inhibitor for use according to claim 37, wherein the cells of the tumour are negative for BCL6 expression and/or do not carry mutations in the BCL6 gene relative to the germline BCL6 gene of the subject.
39. A method for producing an engineered T cell, comprising genetically engineering a T cell to enhance expression of
overexpress BLIMP1 and/or (ii) to knock-out or decrease expression of BCL6.
40. The method of claim 39, further comprising culturing the T cell under conditions suitable for expansion to provide an expanded cell population .
41. The method of claim 39 or claim 40, wherein the method is performed in vitro .
42. The method of any one of claims 39 to 41, wherein genetically engineering a T cell is performed by CRISPR/Cas 9-mediated gene editing, transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs) transient downregulation using short hairpin RNA (shRNA), small interfering RNA (siRNA), microRNA (miRNA) or RNA constructs for overexpression or by introducing a nucleic acid or vector into the cell .
43. The method of any of claims 39 to 42, wherein the engineered T cell has the features of any one of claims 1 to 15.
</claims>
</document>
