<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,G06F9/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
PATIL, NISHANT
SWING, ANDREW
ZHOU XIANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72336372
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RECONFIGURABLE COMPUTING PODS USING OPTICAL NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including an apparatus for generating clusters of building blocks of compute nodes using an optical network. In one aspect, a method includes receiving request data specifying requested compute nodes for a computing workload. The request data specifies a target n-dimensional arrangement of the compute nodes. A selection is made, from a superpod that includes a set of building blocks that each include an m-dimensional arrangement of compute nodes, a subset of the building blocks that, when combined, match the target arrangement specified by the request data. The set of building blocks are connected to an optical network that includes one or more optical circuit switches. A workload cluster of compute nodes that includes the subset of the building blocks is generated. The generating includes configuring, for each dimension of the workload cluster, respective routing data for the one or more optical circuit switches.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by one or more data processing apparatus, the method comprising:
receiving request data specifying requested compute nodes for a computing workload, the request data specifying a target n-dimensional arrangement of the compute nodes, wherein n is greater than or equal to two;
selecting, from a superpod that includes a set of building blocks that each include an m-dimensional arrangement of compute nodes, a subset of the building blocks that, when combined, match the target n-dimensional arrangement specified by the request data, wherein the set of building blocks are connected to an optical network that includes one or more optical circuit switches for each of the n-dimensions, wherein m is greater than or equal to two;
generating a workload cluster of compute nodes that includes the subset of the building blocks, the generating including:
configuring, for each dimension of the workload cluster, respective routing data for the one or more optical circuit switches for the dimension, the respective routing data for each dimension of the workload duster specifying how data of the computing workload is routed between compute nodes along the dimension of the workload cluster; and
causing the compute nodes of the workload duster to execute the computing workload.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein:
the request data specifies different types of compute nodes; and
selecting the subset of building blocks comprises selecting, for each type of compute node specified by the request data, a building block that includes one or more compute nodes of the specified type.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein the respective routing data for each dimension of the superpod comprises an optical circuit switch routing table for one of the one or more optical circuit switches.
4. The method of claim 1 , wherein the optical network includes, for each of the n dimensions, one or more optical circuit switches of the optical network that route data between compute nodes along the dimension.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein:
each building block includes a plurality of segments of compute nodes along each dimension of the building blocks; and
the optical network includes, for each segment of each dimension, an optical circuit switch of the optical network that routes data between the corresponding segments of compute nodes of each building block in the workload cluster.
6. The method of claim 1 , wherein each building block comprises one of a threedimensional torus of compute nodes or a mesh of compute nodes.
7. The method of claim 1 , wherein the superpod includes multiple workload clusters and wherein each workload cluster includes a different subset of the building blocks and execute different workloads than each other workload cluster.
8. The method of claim 1 , further comprising:
receiving data indicating that a given building block of the workload duster has failed; and
replacing the given building block with an available building block.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein replacing the given building block with an available building block comprises:
updating routing data of one or more optical circuit switches of the optical network to stop routing data between the given building block and one or more other building blocks of the workload cluster; and
updating routing data of the one or more optical circuit switches of the optical network to route data between the available building block and the one or more other building blocks of the workload cluster.
10. The method of claim 1 , wherein:
selecting the subset of the building blocks that, when combined, match the target n-dimensional arrangement specified by the request data comprises:
determining that the n-dimensionai arrangement specified by the request data requires a first quantity of building blocks that exceeds a second quantity of healthy available building blocks in the superpod;
in response to determining that the n-dimensionai arrangement specified by the request data requires the first quantity of building blocks that exceeds the second quantity of healthy available building blocks in the superpod:
identifying one or more second computing workloads that have a lower priority than the computing workload and that are being executed by other building blocks of the superpod; and
reassigning one or more building blocks of the one or more second computing workloads to the workload cluster for the computing workload; and
generating the workload duster of compute nodes that includes the subset of the building blocks comprises including the one or more building blocks of the one or more second computing workloads in the subset of the buiiding blocks.
1 1. The method of claim 10, wherein generating the workload cluster of compute nodes that includes the subset of the building blocks comprises reconfiguring, for each dimension of the workload duster, respective routing data for the one or more optical circuit switches for the dimension such that each of the one or building blocks of the one or more second computing workloads communicates with other buiiding blocks of the workload duster rather than building blocks of the one or more second computing workloads.
12. A system, comprising:
a data processing apparatus; and a computer storage medium encoded with a computer program, the program comprising data processing apparatus instructions that when executed by the data processing apparatus cause the data processing apparatus to perform operations comprising:
receiving request data specifying requested compute nodes for a computing workioad, the request data specifying a target n-dimensionai arrangement of the compute nodes, wherein n is greater than or equal to two;
selecting, from a superpod that includes a set of building blocks that each include an m-dimensional arrangement of compute nodes, a subset of the building blocks that, when combined, match the target n-dimensiona! arrangement specified by the request data, wherein the set of building blocks are connected to an optical network that includes one or more optical circuit switches for each of the n-dimensions, wherein m is greater than or equal to two;
generating a workioad cluster of compute nodes that includes the subset of the building blocks, the generating including:
configuring, for each dimension of the workload cluster, respective routing data for the one or more optical circuit switches for the dimension, the respective routing data for each dimension of the workload cluster specifying how data of the computing workload is routed between compute nodes along the dimension of the workload cluster; and
causing the compute nodes of the workioad cluster to execute the computing workload.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein:
the request data specifies different types of compute nodes; and
selecting the subset of building blocks comprises selecting, for each type of compute node specified by the request data, a building block that includes one or more compute nodes of the specified type.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the respective routing data for each dimension of the superpod comprises an optical circuit switch routing table for one of the one or more optical circuit switches.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the optical network includes, for each of the n dimensions, one or more optical circuit switches of the optical network that route data between compute nodes along the dimension.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein:
each building block includes a plurality of segments of compute nodes along each dimension of the building blocks; and
the optical network includes, for each segment of each dimension, an optical circuit switch of the optical network that routes data between the corresponding segments of compute nodes of each building block in the workload cluster.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein each building block comprises one of a threedimensional torus of compute nodes or a mesh of compute nodes.
18. The system of claim 12, wherein the superpod includes multiple workload clusters and wherein each workload cluster includes a different subset of the building blocks and execute different workloads than each other workload cluster.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations comprise:
receiving data indicating that a given building block of the workload duster has failed; and
replacing the given building block with an available building block.
20. A non-transitory computer storage medium encoded with a computer program, the program comprising instructions that when executed by one or more data processing apparatus cause the one or more data processing apparatus to perform operations comprising: receiving request data specifying requested compute nodes for a computing workload, the request data specifying a target n-dimensional arrangement of the compute nodes, wherein n is greater than or equal to two;
selecting, from a superpod that includes a set of building blocks that each include an m-dimensionai arrangement of compute nodes, a subset of the building blocks that, when combined, match the target n-dimensional arrangement specified by the request data, wherein the set of building blocks are connected to an optical network that includes one or more optical circuit switches for each of the n-dimensions, wherein m is greater than or equal to two;
generating a workload cluster of compute nodes that includes the subset of the building blocks, the generating including:
configuring, for each dimension of the workload cluster, respective routing data for the one or more optical circuit switches for the dimension, the respective routing data for each dimension of the workload cluster specifying how data of the computing workload is routed between compute nodes along the dimension of the workload duster; and
causing the compute nodes of the workload cluster to execute the computing workload.
</claims>
</document>
