<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W16/00,H04W24/02,H04W24/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
INAM, RAFIA
VULGARAKIS FELJAN, ANETA
RAIZER, KLAUS
RIBEIRO GUDWIN, RICARDO
JIN, YIFEI
NASCIMENTO JUNIOR, AMADEU
OGANDO PARAENSE, André
BEREZOVSKYI, Andrii
HATA, Alberto
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67184993
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC COLLABORATION AMONG COGNITIVE AGENTS MANAGING RADIO ACCESS NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
A Cognitive Manager (CM) controls a RAN. The CM obtains from the RAN a set of local needs identifying a radio communication performance criterion that is to be satisfied. A set of neighbor needs are obtained from a neighbor CM. An event message is received from the RAN containing a radio metric that does not presently satisfy at least one of the set of local needs. A set of present neighbor improvement action drives being performed or will be performed to satisfy the set of neighbor needs, are obtained from the neighbor CM. A combination of the set of local needs, the set of the neighbor needs, the set of present neighbor improvement action drives, and the radio metric, is used to determine a local improvement action drive that is to be performed by the RAN. An adjustment report identifying the local improvement action drive is provided to the RAN.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method by a Cognitive Manager, CM, for controlling a radio access network, RAN, among a plurality of RANs of a radio communications system, the method comprising:
obtaining (400, 600) a set of local needs from the RAN, wherein each of the local needs identifies a radio communication performance criterion that is to be satisfied for the RAN;
obtaining (506, 602) from at least one neighbor CM a set of the neighbor needs for the at least one neighbor RAN;
receiving (500, 604) an event message from the RAN containing a radio communication performance metric that does not presently satisfy at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN;
obtaining (508, 606) from the at least one neighbor CM a set of present neighbor
improvement action drives that are being performed or will be performed to satisfy the set of the neighbor needs for the at least one neighbor RAN; combining (416, 510-512, 608) the set of local needs from the RAN, the set of the
neighbor needs obtained for the at least one neighbor CM, the set of present neighbor improvement action drives from the at least one neighbor CM, and the radio communication performance metric received in the event message from the RAN;
determining (418-422, 516, 610), based on the combining, a local improvement action drive that is to be performed by the RAN to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN; and
providing (424, 516, 612) an adjustment report to the RAN, the adjustment report
identifying the local improvement action drive that is to be performed.
2. The method of Claim 1, further comprising:
providing (522) the set of local needs of the RAN to the at least one neighbor CM for use in controlling the at least one neighbor RAN; and
based on the determination (516, 610) of the local improvement action drive that is to be performed by the RAN, providing (524) the local improvement action drive to the at least one neighbor CM for use in controlling the at least one neighbor RAN.
3. The method of any of Claims 1 to 2, further comprising: maintaining (700) a data structure in memory that contains the set of local needs from the RAN and the set of the neighbor needs obtained from the at least one neighboring CM; and
responsive to receipt of the event message from the RAN,
requesting (702) the list of present neighbor improvement action drives from the at least one neighbor CM,
initiate performance (704) of the combining (416, 510-512, 608) responsive to receipt of the list of present neighbor improvement action drives from the at least one neighbor CM and based on retrieving from the memory the data structure containing the set of local needs of the RAN and the set of the neighbor needs of the at least one neighboring CM.
4. The method of any of Claims 1 to 3, wherein:
one of the local needs identifies at least one of an acceptable range of Reference Signal Received Power, RSRP, and an acceptable range of Reference Signal Received Quality, RSRQ, that is to be satisfied for the RAN; and
the radio communication performance metric receiving in the event message from the RAN identifies at least one of a RSRP value and a RSRQ value that is outside the at least one of the acceptable range of RSRP and the acceptable range of RSRQ that is to be satisfied for the RAN.
5. The method of any of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the determination (418-422, 516, 610), based on the combining, of the local improvement action drive that is to be performed by the RAN to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN, comprises at least one of:
determining a link adaptation parameter to be used by the RAN to communicate with a mobile device to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN; determining a transmission timing interval parameter to be used by the RAN to
communicate with the mobile device to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN;
determining a dynamic power control parameter and/or a power control parameter to be used by the RAN to communicate with the mobile device to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN; and determining a handover parameter to be used for controlling handover of the mobile device between the RAN and one of the at least one neighbor RAN to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN.
6. The method of Claim 5, further comprising:
communicating a message to the at least one neighbor CM identifying the determined at least one of the link adaptation parameter, the transmission timing interval parameter, the dynamic power control parameter and/or the power control parameter and the handover parameter.
7. The method of any of Claims 1 to 6, further comprising:
coordinating with the at least one neighbor CM to identify (418, 510) at least one of blind spots in communication service areas that are provided by the RAN and the at least one neighbor RAN and target areas for communication services that are provided by the RAN and the at least one neighbor RAN.
8. The method of any of Claims 1 to 7, wherein the determination (418-422, 516, 610), based on the combining, of the local improvement action drive that is to be performed by the RAN to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN, comprises:
estimating an effect that the local improvement action drive will have on the present neighbor improvement action drives that are being performed or will be performed by the at least one neighbor RAN to satisfy the set of the neighbor needs; and
determining the local improvement action drive that is to be performed by the RAN to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN, responsive to the estimation of the effect.
9. The method of any of Claims 1 to 8, wherein the determining (418-422, 516, 610), based on the combining, of the local improvement action drive that is to be performed by the RAN to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN, comprises:
estimating an effect that the local improvement action drive will have on radio
communication performance of the at least one neighbor RAN being able to satisfy the neighbor needs of the at least one neighbor RAN; and determining the local improvement action drive that is to be performed by the RAN to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN, responsive to the estimation of the effect.
10. The method of any of Claims 1 to 9, further comprising:
determining (404, 432) based on the combining a reporting interval at which the RAN is to provide event messages to the CM; and
providing (404, 432) the reporting interval to the RAN.
11. The method of Claim 10, further comprising:
communicating (524) a message identifying the reporting interval to the at least one neighbor CM.
12. The method of any of Claims 1 to 11, wherein:
the method by the CM is performed by at least one processor that is part of the RAN
(100).
13. The method of any of Claims 1 to 11, further comprising:
performing a plurality of CMs by a cloud server (220) that is networked to the RAN, wherein the plurality of CMs operate to control the plurality of RANs with a oneto-one control relationship between the CMs and the RANs, and wherein the CM is one of the plurality of CMs.
14. The method of any of Claims 1 to 13, further comprising:
selecting (514) a relevant subset of CMs which control a subset of neighboring RANs from among a set of CMs which control the plurality of RANs, based on the set of local needs from the RAN, sets of the neighbor needs obtained from the set of CMs, and sets of present neighbor improvement action drives from the set of CMs; and
performing the combining (416, 510-512, 608) to combine the set of local needs from the RAN, the sets of the neighbor needs obtained for the relevant subset of CMs, the sets of present neighbor improvement action drives from the relevant subset of CMs, and the radio communication performance metric received in the event message from the RAN. 15. A network node (100, 220) for controlling a radio access network, RAN, (100) among a plurality of RANs (100) of a radio communications system, the network node comprising: a Cognitive Manager, CM, (200) that controls the RAN by operations comprising:
obtaining a set of local needs from the RAN, wherein each of the local needs identifies a radio communication performance criterion that is to be satisfied for the RAN; obtaining from at least one neighbor CM a set of the neighbor needs for the at least one neighbor RAN;
receiving an event message from the RAN containing a radio communication
performance metric that does not presently satisfy at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN;
obtaining from the at least one neighbor CM a set of present neighbor improvement action drives that are being performed or will be performed to satisfy the set of the neighbor needs for the at least one neighbor RAN;
combining the set of local needs from the RAN, the set of the neighbor needs obtained for the at least one neighbor CM, the set of present neighbor improvement action drives from the at least one neighbor CM, and the radio communication performance metric received in the event message from the RAN;
determining, based on the combining, a local improvement action drive that is to be performed by the RAN to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN; and
providing an adjustment report to the RAN, the adjustment reporting identifying the local improvement action drive that is to be performed.
16. The network node (100, 220) of Claim 15, wherein:
the CM is performed at least partially by at least one processor that is part of the
network node (100).
17. The network node (100, 220) of Claim 16, further comprising:
a neural network (820) configured to perform at least part of the combining of the set of local needs from the RAN, the set of the neighbor needs obtained for the at least one neighbor CM, the set of present neighbor improvement action drives from the at least one neighbor CM, and the radio communication performance metric received in the event message from the RAN to generate at least one output value, wherein the determination of the local improvement action drive is performed based on the at least one output value from the neural network.
18. The network node (100, 220) of any of Claims 15 to 17, wherein the operations further comprise:
providing the set of local needs of the RAN to the at least one neighbor CM for use in controlling the at least one neighbor RAN; and
based on the determination of the local improvement action drive that is to be
performed by the RAN, providing the local improvement action drive to the at least one neighbor CM for use in controlling the at least one neighbor RAN.
19. The network node (100, 220) of any of Claims 15 to 18, wherein the operations further comprise:
maintaining a data structure in memory that contains the set of local needs from the
RAN and the set of the neighbor needs obtained from the at least one neighboring CM; and
responsive to receipt of the event message from the RAN,
requesting the list of present neighbor improvement action drives from the at least one neighbor CM,
initiate performance of the combining responsive to receipt of the list of present neighbor improvement action drives from the at least one neighbor CM and based on retrieving from the memory the data structure containing the set of local needs of the RAN and the set of the neighbor needs of the at least one neighboring CM.
20. The network node (100, 220) of any of Claims 15 to 19, wherein:
one of the local needs identifies at least one of an acceptable range of Reference Signal Received Power, RSRP, and an acceptable range of Reference Signal Received Quality, RSRQ, that is to be satisfied for the RAN; and
the radio communication performance metric received in the event message from the RAN identifies at least one of a RSRP value and a RSRQ value that is outside the at least one of the acceptable range of RSRP and the acceptable range of RSRQ that is to be satisfied for the RAN.
21. The network node (100, 220) of any of Claims 15 to 20, wherein the determination, based on the combining, of the local improvement action drive that is to be performed by the RAN to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN, comprises at least one of:
determining a link adaptation parameter to be used by the RAN to communicate with a mobile device to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN; determining a transmission timing interval parameter to be used by the RAN to
communicate with the mobile device to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN;
determining a dynamic power control parameter and/or a power control parameter to be used by the RAN to communicate with the mobile device to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN; and
determining a handover parameter to be used for controlling handover of the mobile device between the RAN and one of the at least one neighbor RAN to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN.
22. The network node (100, 220) of Claim 21, wherein the operations further comprise: communicating a message to the at least one neighbor CM identifying the determined at least one of the link adaptation parameter, the transmission timing interval parameter, the dynamic power control parameter and/or the power control parameter and the handover parameter.
23. The network node (100, 220) of any of Claims 15 to 22, wherein the operations further comprise:
coordinating with the at least one neighbor CM to identify at least one of blind spots in communication service areas that are provided by the RAN and the at least one neighbor RAN and target areas for communication services that are provided by the RAN and the at least one neighbor RAN.
24. The network node (100, 220) of any of Claims 15 to 23, wherein the determination, based on the combining, of the local improvement action drive that is to be performed by the RAN to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN, comprises:
estimating an effect that the local improvement action drive will have on the present neighbor improvement action drives that are being performed or will be performed by the at least one neighbor RAN to satisfy the set of the neighbor needs; and
determining the local improvement action drive that is to be performed by the RAN to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN, responsive to the estimation of the effect.
25. The network node (100, 220) of any of Claims 15 to 24, wherein the determining, based on the combining, of the local improvement action drive that is to be performed by the RAN to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN, comprises:
estimating an effect that the local improvement action drive will have on radio
communication performance of the at least one neighbor RAN being able to satisfy the neighbor needs of the at least one neighbor RAN; and
determining the local improvement action drive that is to be performed by the RAN to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN, responsive to the estimation of the effect.
26. The network node (100, 220) of any of Claims 15 to 25, wherein the operations further comprise:
determining based on the combining a reporting interval at which the RAN is to provide event messages to the CM; and
providing the reporting interval to the RAN.
27. The network node (100, 220) of Claim 26, further comprising:
communicating a message identifying the reporting interval to the at least one neighbor CM.
28. The network node (100, 220) of any of Claims 15 to 27, wherein the network node is a radio access network.
29. The network node (100, 220) of any of Claims 15 to 27, wherein the network node is a cloud server that is networked to the RANs and configured to perform a plurality of CMs that control the RANs with a one-to-one control relationship between the CMs and the RANs, and wherein the CM is one of the plurality of CMs.
30. The network node (100, 220) of any of Claims 15 to 29, wherein the operations further comprise:
selecting a relevant subset of CMs which control a subset of neighboring RANs from among a set of CMs which control the plurality of RANs, based on the set of local needs from the RAN, sets of the neighbor needs obtained from the set of CMs, and sets of present neighbor improvement action drives from the set of CMs; and performing the combining to combine the set of local needs from the RAN, the sets of the neighbor needs obtained for the relevant subset of CMs, the sets of present neighbor improvement action drives from the relevant subset of CMs, and the radio communication performance metric received in the event message from the RAN.
31. A Cognitive Manager, CM, computer program product for controlling a radio access network, RAN, among a plurality of RANs of a radio communications system, the CM computer program product comprising:
a non-transitory computer readable medium storing program code that is executable by at least processor of a network node to perform operations comprising: obtaining (400, 600) a set of local needs from the RAN, wherein each of the local needs identifies a radio communication performance criterion that is to be satisfied for the RAN;
obtaining (506, 602) from at least one neighbor CM a set of the neighbor needs for the at least one neighbor RAN;
receiving (500, 604) an event message from the RAN containing a radio communication performance metric that does not presently satisfy at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN;
obtaining (508, 606) from the at least one neighbor CM a set of present neighbor
improvement action drives that are being performed or will be performed to satisfy the set of the neighbor needs for the at least one neighbor RAN; combining (416, 510-512, 608) the set of local needs from the RAN, the set of the
neighbor needs obtained for the at least one neighbor CM, the set of present neighbor improvement action drives from the at least one neighbor CM, and the radio communication performance metric received in the event message from the RAN; determining (418-422, 516, 610), based on the combining, a local improvement action drive that is to be performed by the RAN to satisfy the at least one of the set of local needs from the RAN; and
providing (424, 516, 612) an adjustment report to the RAN, the adjustment report identifying the local improvement action drive that is to be performed.
</claims>
</document>
