<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T3/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TANGIBLE PLAY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SOLOMON, MARK
SCHOLLER, JEROME
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74065703
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INPUT POLARITY OF COMPUTING DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A computing device is described. In an example implementation, the computing device includes a housing including a display screen on a front surface, the housing and display screen being collectively positionable in a plurality of physical orientations, an input device that includes a first selection mechanism and a second selection mechanism, the first selection mechanism being actuatable to adjust a setting of an output of an application displayed on the display screen, the second selection mechanism being actuatable to adjust the setting of the output of the application displayed on the display screen, and an orientation sensor configured to determine which physical orientation of the plurality of physical orientations that the display screen is positioned in, and change a first input polarity of the first selection mechanism to correspond to the determined physical orientation of the display screen.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing device comprising:
a housing including a display screen on a front surface, the housing and display screen being collectively positionable in a plurality of physical orientations;
an input device that includes a first selection mechanism and a second selection
mechanism, the first selection mechanism being actuatable to adjust a setting of an output of an application displayed on the display screen, the second selection mechanism being actuatable to adjust the setting of the output of the application displayed on the display screen; and
an orientation sensor configured to determine which physical orientation of the plurality of physical orientations that the display screen is positioned in, and change a first input polarity of the first selection mechanism to correspond to the determined physical orientation of the display screen.
2. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the orientation sensor is further configured to change a second input polarity of the second selection mechanism to correspond to the determined physical orientation of the display screen.
3. The computing device of claim 2, wherein the physical orientation of the plurality of physical orientations is one of a first orientation and a second orientation.
4. The computing device of claim 3, wherein:
when the display screen is situated in the first orientation, the display screen is situated in a first viewing position and the input polarity of the first selection mechanism is actuatable to increase the setting of the output of the application displayed on the display screen; and
when the display screen is situated in the second orientation, the display screen is
situated in a second viewing position and the input polarity of the first selection mechanism is actuatable to decrease the setting of the output of the application displayed on the display screen.
5. The computing device of claim 4, wherein:
when the display screen is situated in the first orientation, the display screen is situated in a first viewing position and the input polarity of the second selection mechanism is actuatable to decrease the setting of the output of the application displayed on the display screen; and
when the display screen is situated in the second orientation, the display screen is
situated in a second viewing position and the input polarity of the second selection mechanism is actuatable to increase the setting of the output of the application displayed on the display screen.
6. The computing device of claim 4, wherein the setting is one of a volume setting, a brightness setting, a screen dimension setting, and an input sensitivity setting.
7. The computing device of claim 4, wherein the input device is a volume control device to adjust a volume of the setting of the output of the computing device.
8. The computing device of claim 5, wherein the setting is a volume setting and the first orientation is a substantially vertical orientation and when the display screen is situated in the first orientation, the first selection mechanism is identified as a top selection mechanism, the first selection mechanism is actuatable to increase the volume setting, and the second selection mechanism is identified as a bottom selection mechanism, the second selection mechanism is actuatable to decrease the volume setting.
9. The computing device of claim 5, wherein the setting is a volume setting and the second orientation is a substantially horizontal orientation and when the display screen is situated in the second orientation, the first selection mechanism is identified as a bottom selection mechanism, the first selection mechanism is actuatable to decrease the volume setting, and the second selection mechanism is identified as a top selection mechanism, the second selection mechanism is actuatable to increase the volume setting.
10. The computing device of claim 5, wherein the display screen is configured to present a graphical user interface that includes a virtual volume interface, the virtual volume interface signaling how the input device is configured.
11. The computing device of claim 10, wherein:
when the display screen is positioned in the first orientation, the virtual volume interface depicts that the input polarity of the first selection mechanism will increase the setting and selecting the second selection mechanism will decrease the setting; and
when the display screen is positioned in the second orientation, the virtual volume
interface depicts that the input polarity of the first selection mechanism will decrease the setting and selecting the second selection mechanism will increase the setting.
12. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the display screen is further configured to present the virtual volume interface to slidably appear from an edge of the display screen that corresponds to a location of the input device on the housing based on whether the display screen is in the first orientation or the second orientation.
13. The computing device of claim 5, wherein the setting is a volume setting, the computing device further comprising:
an audio output device, the audio output including a first audio output device and a
second audio output device, the volume setting being configured to adjust the volume being output using the audio output, the audio output being configured to output a first audio feed and a second portion of the audio feed.
14. The computing device of claim 13, wherein:
when the display screen is positioned in the first orientation, the first audio feed is sent to the first audio output device and the second audio feed is sent to the second audio output device; and
when the display screen is positioned in the second orientation, the second audio feed is sent to the first audio output device and the first audio feed is sent to the second audio output device.
15. A method comprising:
determining that a computing device is positioned in a first orientation on a physical surface, wherein the computing device includes a display screen positioned in a first viewing position and an input device that includes a first selection mechanism and a second selection mechanism, the first selection mechanism being actuatable to adjust a setting of the computing device, the second selection mechanism being actuatable to adjust the setting of the computing device;
receiving a first input from the first selection mechanism; adjusting the setting of the computing device to increase the setting based on the first input from the first selection mechanism;
determining that the computing device has been positioned in a second orientation on the physical surface, wherein the display screen is positioned in a second viewing position and an input polarity of the first selection mechanism has been updated; receiving a second input from the first selection mechanism; and
updating the setting of the computing device to decrease the setting based on the second input from the first selection mechanism.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein adjusting the setting of the computing device to increase the setting based on the first input from the first selection mechanism further comprises: determining that the computing device is currently positioned in the first orientation; mapping the input polarity of the first selection mechanism to increase the setting;
mapping the input polarity of the second selection mechanism to decrease the setting; and
updating the setting of the computing device based the mapping when the first input is received.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein updating the setting of the computing device to decrease the setting based on the second input from the first selection mechanism further comprises:
determining that the computing device is currently positioned in the second orientation; mapping the input polarity of the first selection mechanism to decrease the setting;
mapping the input polarity of the second selection mechanism to increase the setting; and updating the setting of the computing device based the mapping when the second input is received.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
detecting an interaction with the input device; and
displaying on the display screen a virtual volume interface graphic that represents a
current configuration of the input device responsive to detecting the interaction.
19. A computing device comprising: a housing including a display screen on a front surface, the housing and display screen being collectively positionable in one of a first orientation and a second orientation;
an orientation sensor configured to determine whether the housing and display screen are collectively positioned in the first orientation or the second orientation; and change an input polarity of a volume control input device to correspond to the determined orientation; and
the volume control input device located on a side surface of the housing, the volume control input device includes a first selection mechanism and a second selection mechanism, the first selection mechanism being actuatable to adjust a setting of the computing device, the second selection mechanism being actuatable to adjust the setting of the computing device, wherein:
when the housing and display screen are determined to be collectively positioned in the first orientation, the input polarity of the volume control input device is identified as the first selection mechanism is actuated to increase the setting of the computing device and the second selection mechanism is actuated to decrease the setting of the computing device; and
when the housing and display screen are determined to be collectively positioned in the second orientation, the input polarity of the volume control input device is identified as the first selection mechanism is actuated to decrease the setting of the computing device and the second selection mechanism is actuated to increase the setting of the computing device.
20. The computing device of claim 19, wherein when the housing is transitioned from the first orientation to the second orientation, the volume control input device automatically updates the input polarity of the first selection mechanism and the second selection mechanism.
</claims>
</document>
