<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
THUMPUDI, NAVEEN
BOURRET, LOUIS-PHILIPPE
LARSON, CHRISTIAN PALMER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70050205
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRE-PROCESSING IMAGE FRAMES BASED ON CAMERA STATISTICS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to systems, methods, and computer-readable media for selectively identifying image frames from an input video to provide to an image processing model based on camera statistics. For example, systems disclosed herein include receiving an input video and associated camera statistics from a video capturing device. The systems disclosed herein further include identifying select image frames to provide to the image processing model based on the camera statistics and based on an application of the image processing model. The systems disclosed herein further include selectively identifying and providing camera statistics to the image processing model. By selectively providing data to the image processing model based on camera statistics, the systems disclosed herein can leverage capabilities of video capturing devices to significantly reduce the expense of processing resources when utilizing a variety of image processing models.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising:
receiving, from one or more video capturing devices, input video content including a plurality of image frames;
identifying camera statistics for the video content, the camera statistics including data obtained by the one or more video capturing devices in conjunction with generating the video content;
determining a subset of image frames from the plurality of image frames based on the camera statistics; and
providing the subset of image frames as inputs to an image processing model trained to generate an output based on one or more input images.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the input video content comprises captured video footage that has been locally refined by the one or more video capturing devices based on the camera statistics.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the camera statistics comprises:
receiving a set of camera statistics from the one or more video capturing devices; and
identifying one or more camera statistics based on an application of the image processing model.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the subset of image frames comprises selecting image frames from the plurality of image frames based on a rate at which the image processing model is configured to generate outputs based on input images.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the subset of image frames comprises identifying image frames that include content of interest based on the camera statistics, and wherein identifying the image frames comprises:
identifying a first set of image frames to provide as inputs to the image processing model at a first frame rate, the first set of image frames corresponding to a first duration of the video content that includes content of interest; and
identifying a second set of image frames to provide as inputs to the image processing model at a second frame rate, the second set of image frames corresponding to a second duration of the video content that does not include content of interest.
6. The method of claim 1,
wherein receiving the input video content comprises receiving a plurality of input video streams from a plurality of video capturing devices, the plurality of input video streams comprising image frames from the plurality of input video streams; and wherein the camera statistics include data obtained by the plurality of video capturing devices in conjunction with generating the plurality of input video streams.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein determining the subset of image frames comprises selectively identifying the subset of image frames from a first input video stream of the plurality of input video streams based on identified content of interest being detected within video content from the first input video stream.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein determining the subset of image frames further comprises selectively identifying image frames from the first input video stream based on camera statistics obtained by a video capturing device that generated the first input video stream.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the image processing model comprises a deep learning model, and wherein providing the subset of image frames comprises providing the subset of image frames to the deep learning model implemented on a cloud computing system.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the image processing model comprises a deep learning model, and wherein providing the subset of image frames comprises providing the subset of image frames as input to the deep learning model implemented on a computing device that receives the input video content from the video capturing device.
11. A method, comprising:
receiving, from one or more video capturing devices, input video content and a set of camera statistics, wherein the set of camera statistics includes data obtained by the one or more video capturing devices in conjunction with generating the video content;
identifying a subset of camera statistics from the set of camera statistics associated with a subset of the video content based on an application of an image processing model; and
providing the identified subset of camera statistics and the associated subset of video content as inputs to a deep learning model trained to generate an output based on video content and camera statistics.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising transforming the input video content based on the identified subset of camera statistics, wherein providing the identified subset of camera statistics and the associated subset of video content to the deep learning model comprises providing transformed video content to the deep learning model.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein providing the identified subset of camera statistics and the associated subset of video content as inputs to the deep learning model comprises providing cropped portions of the video content to the deep learning model.
14. A system, comprising:
one or more processors;
memory in electronic communication with the one or more processors; and instructions stored in the memory, the instructions being executable by the one or more processors to cause a computing device to:
receive, from one or more video capturing devices, input video content including a plurality of image frames;
identify camera statistics for the video content, the camera statistics including data obtained by the one or more video capturing devices in conjunction with capturing the video content;
determine a subset of image frames from the plurality of image frames based on the camera statistics; and
provide the subset of image frames as inputs to a deep learning model trained to generate an output based on one or more input images.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the one or more video capturing devices and the deep learning model trained to generate the output based on the one or more input images are both implemented on the computing device and coupled to the one or more processors of the system.
</claims>
</document>
