<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N5/04,G08B21/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DUAL STREAM TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WILLNER, LEOPOLD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70279719
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CROSS REFLEXIVITY COGNITIVE METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to methods, non-transitory computer readable medium, and apparatus consistent with the present disclosure relate to receiving responses to queries from different, alien to one another in form and substance species of intelligence, including human generated responses and responses provided by intelligent machines when identifying differences between the human sentiment based responses and analytical or functional machine based responses. A method consistent with the present disclosure may receive responses to a query from user devices that are associated with users that are humans, to identify a preferred human query response, preferably out of a selected or trained human swarm, from those received human responses, and to receive a response to the query that was generated by an intelligent machine. This method may then improve the operation of an intelligent machine over time through an iterative process.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for improving the operation of a machine, the method comprising:
receiving responses after sending a query to a plurality of user devices;
identifying at least one of a human preference or proposed solution from the received user device responses;
identifying that a response to the query received from an artificial intelligent (AI) machine differs from the at least one of the human preference or proposed solution, the response based on a first condition at the AI machine;
sending information associated with the at least one of the human preference or proposed solution to the AI machine, the sent information resulting in updating the first AI condition to correspond to an updated condition at the AI machine;
identifying after receiving a subsequent AI response that the subsequent AI response corresponds to the at least one of the human preference or proposed solution, or a subsequent human preference or proposed solution.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
identifying difference information to send to the plurality of user devices based on the AI response being identified as being different from the at least one of the human preference or proposed solution;
sending the difference information to the plurality of user devices;
receiving responses based on the sending of the difference information to the plurality of user devices; and
identifying the subsequent human preference or proposed solution.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving information to include in the query; and
sending the query to the plurality of user devices and to the AI machine, wherein the query includes medical data of a patient and requests responses regarding the medical patient data and the user device responses identify a recommended treatment for the patient.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving information to include in the query; and
sending the query to the plurality of user devices and to the AI machine, wherein the query includes design information of a design and requests responses regarding the design information and the user device responses identify a design constraint that should be evaluated before the design is completed.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing an analysis on data included in the user device responses, the analysis identifying the at least one of the human preference or proposed solution.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising identifying weighting factors to assign with each of the user device responses, the weighting factors associated with historical success accuracies associated with respective users that provided respective user device responses, wherein a response from a first user that has a greater success accuracy than a second user is assigned a greater weighting factor than a weighting factor assigned to a response from the second user.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
sending a second update to the condition to the AI machine;
receiving a third AI response from the AI machine, the third AI response generated at the AI machine based on the second update to the condition; and
identifying a sensitivity associated with responses provided by the AI machine based on identifying differences in the first AI response, the subsequent AI response, and the third AI response.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising:
sending sensitivity information to the plurality of user devices that identifies the sensitivity associated with the responses provided by the AI machine; and
receiving information from a set of the plurality of user devices that includes feedback regarding the identified sensitivity.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising identifying that the feedback indicates that the subsequent human preference or proposed solution indicates that the identified sensitivity has met or is above a human bias expectation level.
10. The method of claim 2, further comprising sending information that identifies the subsequent human preference or proposed solution to the AI machine, wherein the AI machine:
performs an analysis after accessing a database that stores data relating to the first condition and the updated condition, and data associated with the first AI response and the subsequent AI response, the analysis identifying that the data accessed in the database is consistent with the subsequent human preference or proposed solution; and updates operation of the AI machine based on the analysis identifying that accessed data is consistent with the subsequent human preference or proposed solution.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the operation of the AI machine is updated by changing at least one of a parameter or an algorithm at the AI machine.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the analysis is at least one of a statistical analysis or a causality analysis.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
comparing an initial AI response and an initial human preference or proposed solution after sending an initial query to the AI machine and to the plurality of user devices;
identifying an initial difference between the initial AI response and the initial human preference or proposed solution, wherein the difference between the AI responses and the at least one human preference or proposed solution is greater than the initial difference; and
sending the query to the plurality of user devices and the AI machine, wherein the information associated with the at least one of the human preference or proposed solution sent to the AI machine results in the subsequent AI response to correspond to the at least one of the human preference or proposed solution, or the subsequent human preference or proposed solution.
14. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium having embodied thereon a program executable by a processor for implementing a method for improving the operation of a machine, the method comprising:
receiving responses after sending a query to a plurality of user devices;
identifying a least one of the human preference or proposed solution from the received user device responses;
identifying that a response to the query received from an artificial intelligent (AI) machine differs from the at least one of the human preference or proposed solution the response based on a first condition at the AI machine;
sending information associated with the at least one of the human preference or proposed solution to the AI machine, the sent information resulting in updating the first AI condition to correspond to an updated condition at the AI machine;
identifying after receiving a subsequent AI response that the subsequent AI response corresponds to the at least one of the human preference or proposed solution or a subsequent human preference or proposed solution.
15. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, the program further executable to:
identify difference information to send to the plurality of user devices based on the AI response being identified as being different from the at least one of the human preference or proposed solution;
send the difference information to the plurality of user devices;
receive responses based on the sending of the difference information to the plurality of user devices; and
identify the subsequent human preference or proposed solution.
16. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, the program further executable to:
receive information to include in the query; and
send the query to the plurality of user devices and to the AI machine, wherein the query includes medical data of a patient and requests responses regarding the medical patient data and the user device responses identify a recommended treatment for the patient.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, the program further executable to:
receive information to include in the query; and
send the query to the plurality of user devices and to the AI machine, wherein the query includes design information of a design and requests responses regarding the design information and the user device responses identify a design constraint that should be evaluated before the design is completed.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, the program further executable to perform an analysis on data included in the user device responses, the analysis identifying the human preference.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 18, the program further executable to identify weighting factors to assign with each of the user device responses, the weighting factors associated with historical success accuracies associated with respective users that provided respective user device responses, wherein a response from a first user that has a greater success accuracy than a second user is assigned a greater weighting factor than a weighting factor assigned to a response from the second user.
20. An system for improving the operation of a machine, the system comprising:
a communication interface that receives responses after sending a query to a plurality of user devices;
a memory; and
a processor that executes instructions out of the memory to:
identify a human preference from the received user device responses, identify that a response to the query received from an artificial intelligent (AI) machine differs from the human preference the response based on a first condition at the AI machine, wherein information associated with the human preference is sent to the AI machine, and the sent information resulting in updating the first AI condition to correspond to an updated condition at the AI machine, and
identify after receiving a subsequent AI response that the subsequent AI response corresponds to the human preference or a subsequent human preference.
21. The system of claim 20, further comprising application program code that is provided to the plurality of user devices, the provided program code operational to allow each of the plurality of user devices to send the query responses.
</claims>
</document>
