<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F16C32/04,H02K7/09,H02N15/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
POWELL, Christopher, Hugh
</assignee>

<inventors>
POWELL, Christopher
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73653361
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REMOTE STRUCTURAL REINFORCEMENT OF THE FLYWHEEL ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Here, we have devised a system that utilizes Flux-Pinning (or quantum locking) to provide Remote Structural Reinforcement to the rotor of a Flywheel Energy Storage System (FESS). This system utilizes superconducting materials to produce: (i) levitation of the rotor, (ii) a frictionless hinge to hold the rotor in place during operation, and (ill) a series of contactless quantum bonds that provide a reenforcing mechanism. This contactless reinforcement strengthens the rotor against centrifugal forces during operation. And ultimately, this system increases the tensile strength of the rotor; thereby increasing its maximum angular velocity (as well as the energy density of the FESS) without increasing the mass of the Rotor with additional reinforcement materials.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A Flywheel Energy Storage System(FESS) that utilizes flux pinning in a manner that allows the physical reinforcements—placed around or within the stator— to provide contactless reinforcement to the rotor during the FESS' operation. Hence, the FESS provides Remote Structural Reinforcement to the rotor during operation; and this advanced FESS comprises:
a Levitator, which may either be (i) a bulk HTSC or (ii) one composed of ultra thin layers of High Temperature Superconductor (HTSC) having been brought to its critical temperature(s) enabling the superconducting
characteristics of its components; further, each layer of HTSC may be separated from one another by layers of ultra thin reinforcement-materials; and Levitator may also be encased in layers of reinforcement materials; said reinforcement materials must not inhibit the superconductivity or magnetic penetration of various components;
a cylindrical permanent magnet, which may be a superconducting magnet with components brought to their critical temperature(s) enabling their superconducting characteristics; and which may be encased in (and/or embedded with) layers of reinforcement material; said reinforcement materials must not inhibit the superconductivity or magnetic penetration of various components;
a contactless-levitating-revolute joint (or frictionless hinge) upon which the rotor can move about the stator in a circular contactless fashion; such joint will be formed as the Levitator is brought within range of the appropriate portion of the cylindrical permanent magnet's axially symmetric magnetic field— establishing Vortices between Levitator and magnet; a rotor, for which either the cylindrical permanent magnet or the Levitator may be designated, that will act as the moving component of the FESS;
whereby, the rotor is be constructed in a manner, in which the flux pinning materials of the rotor are positioned around and within the rotor's mass to reinforce the non-flux pinning materials (within the rotor) (if any) from centrifugal stress; as such, the outermost rim of the rotor should be composed entirely of the materials undergoing flux pinning interactions;
a stator, for which either the cylindrical permanent magnet or the Levitator may be designated, that will act as the stationary component of the FESS;
whereby the stator is be constructed in a manner, in which the non-flux pinning materials of the stator are positioned (around and (potentially) within) the stator's mass to reinforce the flux pinning materials (within the stator) from the
centrifugal stress transmitted from the rotor during the flux pinning interactions; as such, the outermost rim of the stator should be composed entirely of the materials that are not undergoing flux pinning interactions;
an electromagnetic motor/generator, wherein the motor—using electricity — accelerates the rotor to store energy, and wherein the generator later extracts energy from the rotor's motion to generate electricity;
a vacuum chamber, in which all (or a portion of) the air has been evacuated, to reduce friction and increase insulation; and
a refrigeration (and insulation) system for the retention of the critical temperature(s) of the superconducting components.
2. The system of claim 1 , wherein the cylindrical permanent magnet is a
superconducting permanent magnet; whereas said superconducting permanent cylindrical magnet is composed of either a type 1 or type 2 superconducting material formed into a short circuit and endowed with a magnetic field of sufficient strength; mercury is an excellent example of a type 1 superconducting material that could be used in forming such a superconducting permanent cylindrical magnet.
3. The system of claim 1 , wherein the embedded reinforcement is composed of reinforcement layered laterally (i.e. in a series of concentric rings) within the materials undergoing flux pinning interactions.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the concentric layers of reinforcement can take the form of rebar-cages.
5. The system of claim 1 , wherein the encasing reinforcement is of composed
reinforcement surrounding/enveloping the materials undergoing flux pinning interactions.
6. The system of claim 1 , wherein the rotor is doughnut-shaped and contained within a similarly doughnut-shaped yet hollow stator, allowing for an increase in surface area exposure between the cylindrical permanent magnet and the Levitator for the formation of Vortices; it is important to note that the permanent cylindrical magnet as well as the levitator can be readily formed into either component for this claim.
7. The system of claim 1 , wherein the"battery cell" of the FESS is composed of one or more Levitator(s) that are flux pinned with one or more cylindrical permanent magnet(s) forming one or more revolute joint(s).
8. The system of claim 7, wherein each Levitator is far smaller than the magnetic surface (of the permanent cylindrical magnet) where the revolute joint is formed.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein each Levitator is large enough to nearly cover the entirety of the magnetic surface (of the permanent cylindrical magnet) where the revolute joint is formed.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein each rotor is separated from one another by a four (4) sided"tunnel" composed of stator(s) or stator materials.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein several of the tunnel walls, composed of
stator(s) or stator material, could engage in flux pinning interactions with rotors on either side of the wall (bonding with rotors both inside and outside the tunnel).
12. The system of claim 1 , further comprising:
a"solid-multilayered-rotor" composed of very thin overlapping/encasing layers of cylindrical permanent magnet(s) and Levitator(s) and reinforcement.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein each of the layers (within the a solidmultilayered-rotor) essentially forms a hollow cylindrical shell of one of the following: Levitator, permanent cylindrical magnet, or composite reinforcement; where each layer encases the next.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein each layer, that is composed of either
Levitator(s) or permanent cylindrical magnet(s), undergoes flux pinning interactions with the other appropriate layers within the rotor—providing the rotor with increased tensile strength.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the stator undergoes flux pinning interactions with either the Levitator layer(s) or permanent cylindrical magnet layer(s) within the rotor, forming the revolute joint of the FESS.
16. The system of claim 12, further comprising:
a core of the rotor, at the center of the many layers, which is composed of strong material as final reinforcement.
17. The system of claim 1 , further comprising:
a spherical container for several FESS"battery cells"
18. The system of claim 17, further comprising a series of layered shelves,
contained within the spherical container, in which the FESS"battery cells" are stored.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein each FESS"battery cells" is stored within one of the layered shelves, one atop the other, within said spherical container.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein several FESS"battery cells" are stored within each of the layered shelves within said spherical container.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein each FESS"battery cell" within a particular layer is arranged between patches of reinforcement, so that the centrifugal stress produce by any single"battery cell" can be used to gird its neighboring "battery cell" against its own centrifugal stress.
22. The system of claim 21 , further comprising:
Machine Learning Software design guide the respective motor/ generator(s) in distributing power to/from the battery cells in each shelf.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the Machine Learning Software distributes energy, between the battery cells, in a manner that maximizes each battery's ability to provide structural support to its neighbor.
24. The system of claim 17, further comprising:
an outer shell of the spherical container which is composed of reinforcement material.
25. The system of claim 1 , further comprising:
an insulation system composed of a dual chambered enclave (one chamber within the other) designed to insulate and extract heat from the FESS in form of infrared light.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the FESS is stored in the inner chamber
27. The system of claim 25, wherein the inner chamber has an outer surface that is coated with a material that is highly reflective of infrared radiation—such as plexiglass.
28. The system of claim 25, wherein the outer chamber has an inner surface that is coated with a material that is highly absorptive of infrared radiation—such as Vantablack.
29. The system of claim 25, wherein the inner chamber is levitated (via flux pinning) within the outer chamber.
30. The system of claim 25, wherein the outer surface of the inner chamber is
embedded with several Levitators (brought to their critical temperature).
31. The system of claim 25, wherein the inner surface of the outer chamber is
embedded with several magnets.
32. The system of claim 25, wherein the Levitators and the magnets, embedded within the walls of each respective chamber, undergo flux pinning interactions producing the levitation of the inner chamber.
33. The system of claim 25, wherein a vacuum is maintained in the zone separating these two chambers.
34. The system of claim 1 , further comprising:
a spherical gimbal—to which the FESS is attached or enclosed— that utilizes revolute joints produced by flux-pinning.
35. The system of claim 34, wherein the gimbal is comprised of dual spherical chambers, one enclosing the other.
36. The system of claim 34, wherein the FESS is stored in the inner chamber.
37. The system of claim 34, wherein outer surface of the FESS is embedded with Levitators (brought to their respective critical temperatures).
38. The system of claim 34, wherein inner surface of the inner chamber is
embedded with cylindrical permanent magnet(s).
39. The system of claim 34, wherein— through flux pinning interactions— Levitators (HTSC) and cylindrical permanent magnets form revolute joints (frictionless hinges) between the FESS and the inner chamber.
40. The system of claim 34, wherein revolute joints allow on a FESS to rotate within the inner chamber on one axis of the gimbal.
41. The system of claim 34, wherein outer surface of the inner chamber is
embedded with Levitators (brought to their respective critical temperatures).
42. The system of claim 34, wherein inner surface of the outer chamber is
embedded with cylindrical permanent magnet(s).
43. The system of claim 34, wherein—through flux pinning interactions— Levitators (HTSC) and cylindrical permanent magnets form revolute joints (frictionless hinges) between the inner chamber and the outer chamber.
44. The system of claim 34, wherein revolute joints allow on a FESS to rotate within the inner chamber on another (opposing) axis of the gimbal.
45. A method for providing Remote Structural Reinforcement to the rotor of a
Flywheel Energy Storage System, the method comprising:
flux pinning a Levitator with a cylindrical permanent magnet on a plane of the axially symmetric magnetic field—in such a way that one of the pair is levitating above the other and is able to move in a circular fashion above its partner;
setting up one of the pair, either the levitator or the cylindrical permanent magnet, as the stator;
setting up the other of the pair, either the levitator or the cylindrical permanent magnet, as the rotor;
positioning materials within the rotor in such a way that the flux pinning materials within the rotor's mass reinforce the non-flux pinning materials (within the rotor's mass) from centrifugal stress during operation;
positioning materials within the stator in such a way that the
reinforcement materials within the stator's mass reinforce the flux pinning materials (within the stator's mass) from centrifugal stress transmitted from the rotor during operation;
placing the rotor and reinforced stator into a vacuum chamber, in which all or a part of the air has been removed, to reduced air resistance and increase insulation;
providing refrigeration and insulation (as needed) to maintain the critical temperatures of any superconducting components;
accelerating the rotor—to store energy— using a contactless electromagnetic motor/generator; and decelerating the rotor—to extract energy— using a contactless electromagnetic motor/generator.
46. A method of claim 45, further comprising:
providing encasing reinforcement (to the stator) by surrounding/ enveloping the materials undergoing flux pinning interactions with reinforcement materials (like composites).
47. A method of claim 45, further comprising:
providing embedded reinforcement (to the rotor and/or stator) by layering reinforcement laterally (i.e. left to right in a series of concentric rings) within the materials undergoing flux pinning interactions; (these concentric layers may take the form of rebar-cages).
</claims>
</document>
