<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ODICO FORMWORK ROBOTICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
PEDERSEN, JENS
NEYTHALATH, Narendrakrishnan
VINTER-HVIID, Andreas
SØNDERGAARD, Asbjørn
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66379691
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SMART MANUFACTURING FRAMEWORK
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to a computer-implemented method for customizing an automated product manufacturing process. It further relates to a robotic manufacturing system for manufacturing a product based on a fabrication model generated by means of the aforementioned computer-implemented method. One embodiment relates to a computer-implemented method for customizing a parametric design and manufacturing process of a physical product, the method comprising the steps of: obtaining a configurable parametric 3D product model representing a template of the physical product; customizing by a user the parametric 3D product model to provide a product instance describing the desired geometry of the physical product; automatically updating a fabrication model based on the parametric 3D product model; and optionally submitting the fabrication model to a manufacturing machine for fabricating the physical product or a mould for the physical product.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for customizing a parametric design and
manufacturing process of a physical product, the method comprising the steps of:
- obtaining a configurable parametric 3D product model representing a template of the physical product;
customizing by a user the parametric 3D product model to provide a product instance describing the desired geometry of the physical product;
- automatically updating a fabrication model based on the parametric 3D product model; and
- optionally submitting the fabrication model to a manufacturing machine for fabricating the physical product or a mould for the physical product wherein the steps of the method constitute a directed acyclic graph (DAG).
2. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the product model constitutes a DAG comprising a plurality of nodes, wherein at least one of said nodes is configured to apply one or more geometric operations for achieving the desired geometry. 3. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the fabrication model constitutes a DAG comprising a plurality of nodes, wherein at least one of said nodes is configured to apply one or more operations to the product instance.
4. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the geometry of the product is defined by a set of design variables, each design variable comprising a set of boundaries.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the product model comprises a set of functions defining dependencies between the design variables.
6. The method according to any of the claims 4-5, wherein the user may
customize the product model by changing the value of one or more of the design variables.
7. The method according to any of the claims 4-6, wherein the design variables are provided in a graphical user interface (GUI).
8. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the fabrication model is updated by inheriting the product instance from the product model.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the fabrication model is configured to convert a positive shape defining the geometry of the product, to a negative shape defining a mould for the product, or vice versa.
10. The method according to any of the claims 8-9, wherein the fabrication model is configured to divide the product instance into a number of parts according to a bounded set of dimensions representing either the dimensions of a workpiece or the reachable workspace of the manufacturing machine.
11. The method according to any of the claims 8-10, wherein the fabrication model is configured to provide manufacturing related details to the parts, such as interlocks or connections between the parts, or numbering of the parts.
12. The method according to any of the claims 8-11 , wherein the fabrication model is configured to apply a pattern of geometric constructs, such as points, lines, curves, surfaces or bounded planes, said geometric constructs describing in part or as a whole the faces of the product instance.
13. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the fabrication model is configured to generate a sequence of targets.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein each target is assigned an
orientation specifying the orientation of a manufacturing tool configured to move through the target.
15. The method according to any of the claims 13-14, wherein a planning model is provided, said planning model comprising a low-level motion planner for determining a motion plan.
16. The method according to claim 15, wherein the planning model further comprises a high-level planner for planning, initiating and/or monitoring the manufacturing process.
17. The method according to any of the claims 15-16, wherein the planning model constitutes a DAG comprising a plurality of nodes, each node representing a sub-process of the manufacturing process.
18. The method according to claim 17, wherein said sub-process is selected from the group of: planning the manufacturing process, monitoring the manufacturing process, initiating the manufacturing process, executing the manufacturing process, or combinations thereof.
19. The method according to any of the claims 16-17, wherein the targets are
transmitted to the planning model, and wherein the planning model is configured to translate the targets into machine instructions executable by the manufacturing machine.
20. The method according to claim 19, wherein the high-level planner is configured to transmit a correctional action to the manufacturing machine and/or transmits an alert to the user, in case the desired geometry cannot be realised by the manufacturing machine.
21. The method according to any of the claims 19-20, wherein the high-level
planner is configured to evaluate whether the targets are admissible.
22. The method according to any of the claims 19-21 , wherein the high-level
planner is configured to relay the targets and/or the tool path to a low-level motion planner provided the targets are deemed admissible.
23. The method according to claim 22, wherein the low-level motion planner is
configured to determine a motion plan of a manufacturing tool attached to the manufacturing machine, such that the manufacturing tool follows said motion plan when manufacturing the product, wherein the motion plan is determined based on the targets and a virtual representation of the manufacturing machine.
24. The method according to claim 23, wherein the low-level motion planner receives input relating to the material parameters of a workpiece for
manufacturing the product and/or a mould for the product, and wherein the motion plan is updated based on said input.
25. The method according to any of the claims 19-23, wherein the planning model is configured to generate machine instructions in a format readable by the manufacturing machine.
26. The method according to claim 25, wherein the machine instructions are
transmitted to the manufacturing machine for fabricating the physical product or a mould for the physical product.
27. The method according to any of the claims 19-26, wherein the high-level
planner is configured to monitor the status of the manufacturing machine.
28. The method according to any of the claims 19-27, wherein the high-level
planner is configured to receive input related to the manufacturing process of the product, said input provided by the manufacturing machine or a sensor monitoring the manufacturing process and/or the manufacturing machine.
29. The method according to claim 28, wherein the target generation is revised based on the input.
30. The method according to any of the claims 15-29, wherein the high-level
planner is configured to evaluate appropriate actions through an action identifier, and transmitting decisions through an associated action node that controls required sectors of the system.
31. The method according to any of the claims 15-30, wherein the high-level
planner is configured to evaluate appropriate actions based on input from a state identifier, said state identifier configured to use one or more functions from a perception skill library.
32. The method according to any of the claims 15-31 , wherein the perception skill library comprises one or more machine learning algorithms and/or computer vision algorithms, said algorithms being configured to analyze sensor-data related to the specific manufacturing process.
33. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein a display unit model comprising a model-view-controller (MVC) is provided, said model-viewcontroller configured to enable a user to view a 3D rendering of the product defined by the product model. 34. The method according to claim 33, wherein the 3D rendering of the product is generated by transmitting a mesh translation of the product to a render node.
35. The method according to any of the claims 33-34, wherein the user may view and customize the product model in a graphical user interface (GUI), wherein said customization is performed by changing the value of one or more of the design variables.
36. The method according to any of the claims 33-35, wherein the customized
product defined in the product model is transmitted to the render node such that the GUI displays the customized product immediately after any user-induced changes to the product model.
37. The method according to any of the claims 33-36, wherein the GUI comprises at least a first menu and a second menu, the first menu comprising at least the set of design variables relating to the obtained product model; and the second menu comprising a set of generic options such as load, save, settings, help, and history.
38. The method according to any of the claims 33-37, wherein the second menu is updated automatically when a new product model is obtained, such that the second menu only displays the design variables defining the currently obtained product model.
39. The method according to any of the claims 33-38, wherein the GUI comprises a third menu comprising one or more manufacturing variables relating to the manufacturing machine and/or the manufacturing process. 40. The method according to any of the claims 33-38, wherein the model-viewcontroller is configured to inquire the admissibility status of the targets, said status provided by the high-level planner, and wherein the model-viewcontroller is configured to display in the GUI an alert and/or a message to the user based on said status.
41. The method according to any of the claims 33-40, wherein the model-viewcontroller is configured to inquire any changes to the fabrication geometry defined in the fabrication model, and wherein said changes is transmitted to the render node if applicable.
42. The method according to any of the claims 1-41 , wherein the physical product or the mould for the physical product is manufactured from a workpiece using a subtractive manufacturing process performed by abrasive wire cutting, hot wire cutting, hot-blade cutting, milling, sawing, lasering, or clay cutting.
43. The method according to any of the claims 1-41 , wherein the physical product or the mould for the physical product is manufactured using an additive manufacturing process.
44. The method according to any of the claims 1-41 , wherein the physical product or the mould for the physical product is manufactured using a pick and place process and wherein the pick and place process is used to lay bricks, tiles, or wooden planks.
45. The method according to any of the claims 1-44, wherein the set of boundaries comprises at least one limitation selected from the group of: product model dimensions, workpiece dimensions, material characteristics of the physical product, material characteristics of the workpiece, geometry of the physical product, reach of the manufacturing machine, the manufacturing process, or the tool of the manufacturing machine.
46. A robotic manufacturing system comprising:
- an automated machine, e.g. a robot, and; - a processing unit comprising a software application executable on the processing unit and configured for executing the method according to any of the preceding claims 1-45, such that the manufacturing machine can be instructed to manufacture the product, or a mould thereof, based on the fabrication model generated by means of the software application.
47. The robotic system according to claim 46, wherein the system is suitable for manufacturing a mould/formwork for the creation of complex objects.
48. The robotic system according to any of the claims 46-47, wherein the robotic system is mobile and the automated machine is a containerized manufacturing unit for manufacturing parts used in construction.
49. The robotic system according to any of the claims 46-48, wherein the
automated machine is an industrial robot configured for robotic hot-wire cutting (RHWC), robotic hot-blade cutting, robotic milling, robotic sawing, abrasive cutting, robotic clay cutting, lasering, bending, welding, spraying, or printing.
50. The robotic system according to any of the claims 46-49, wherein the robotic system is a mobile and standalone robotic manufacturing system.
51. The robotic system according to any of the claims 46-50, wherein the robotic system is mounted in an intermodal container.
52. A computer-implemented method for customizing a construction workflow for fabricating a physical product by means of a manufacturing machine by representing the construction workflow as a plurality of sub-processes in a directed acyclic graph (DAG), such that each sub-process is represented as a node in a graph data structure with edges connecting the nodes, the method comprising the steps of:
- providing a customizable parametric product model describing the
geometry of the physical product through a set of design variables, each design variable comprising a set of boundaries, the product model further comprising a set of functions defining dependencies between the design variables; - providing a display unit model defining a graphical user interface for enabling user manipulation of the design variables within the boundaries for customizing the parametric product model;
- providing a fabrication model for generating a sequence of targets
based on the customized parametric product model;
- providing a planning model for translating the sequence of targets into executable machine instructions by the manufacturing machine; and
- optionally providing a manufacturing machine for fabricating the physical product or a mould for the physical product, wherein said manufacturing machine is represented as a node in the DAG;
wherein the parametric product model, the display unit model, the fabrication model, and the planning model represent nodes connected by edges in the DAG, such that edges between nodes provide a unilateral direction of data transfer between connected nodes.
53. The method according to claim 52, wherein the method is suitable for
customizing a plurality of different construction workflows, and wherein the DAG is invariant across at least two of said construction workflows.
54. The method according to any of the claims 52-53, wherein the planning model is configured to transmit the machine instructions to the manufacturing machine for fabricating the physical product or a mould for the physical product.
55. The method according to any of the claims 52-54, wherein the planning model is configured to enquire the status of the manufacturing machine.
56. The method according to claim 52, further comprising the steps of any of the claims 2-45.
57. A computer program having instructions thereon which, when executed by a computing device or system, causes the computing device or system to provide customization of a construction workflow for fabricating a physical product by executing the method according to any of the claims 52-55.
58. A computer program having instructions thereon which, when executed by a computing device or system, causes the computing device or system to execute the method according to any of the claims 54-55, thereby providing executable machine instructions to the manufacturing machine for fabricating the physical product or a mould for the physical product.
59. A computer-implemented data structure stored in a memory device, the data structure representing a customizable workflow for fabricating a physical product using a manufacturing system, the data structure comprising:
- a first node representing a customizable parametric product model describing the geometry of the physical product through a set of design variables, each design variable comprising a set of boundaries, the product model further comprising a set of functions defining dependencies between the design variables,
- a second node representing a graphical user interface enabling a user to customize the product model by changing the value of one or more of the design variables, thereby obtaining a customized product instance;
- a third node representing a fabrication model derived from said product model, the fabrication model comprising a sequence of targets;
- a fourth node representing a planning model configured for translating said targets into machine instructions executable by the manufacturing system;
- optionally a fifth node representing the manufacturing system configured for receiving the machine instructions for fabricating the physical product; and
- optionally a sixth node representing a communication model configured for transmitting the machine instructions to the manufacturing system; wherein the nodes are connected by edges to form a directed acyclic graph (DAG) representing the entire workflow, wherein the edges enables data transfer from at least one node to at least another node.
60. A robotic manufacturing system comprising:
- an automated machine;
- a processing unit comprising a software application executable on the processing unit and configured for executing the method according to any of the preceding claims 1-45, such that the manufacturing machine can be instructed to manufacture the product, or a mould thereof, based on the fabrication model generated by means of the software application.
- a memory device storing the data structure according to claim 59.
</claims>
</document>
