<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C07K16/30,C07K16/40,C12Q1/68
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TEMPUS LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KHAN, ALY AZEEM
LAU, DENISE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70161542
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MICROSATELLITE INSTABILITY DETERMINATION SYSTEM AND RELATED METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for determining microsatellite instability (MSI) directly from microsatellite region mappings for specific loci in the genome are provided. Techniques include an MSI assay that may be deployed in a paired form, that is, as tumor sample and matched normal sample MSI assay, or an unpaired form, that is, as a tumor-only MSI assay. The techniques provide an automated process for MSI determination by mapping read counts in tumor samples and normal samples and comparing the two, for an identified set of 43 microsatellite loci.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of indicating a likelihood of microsatellite instability, the method comprising:
for each locus in a plurality of microsatellite instability (MSI) loci:
mapping a first plurality of genomic sequencing reads from a tumor specimen to the locus; mapping a second plurality of genomic sequencing reads from a matched-normal specimen to the locus;
comparing the mapping of the first plurality to the mapping of the second plurality and determining the likelihood of microsatellite instability based on the comparison; and
generating a report indicating the determined likelihood of microsatellite instability.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of MSI loci includes at least one locus listed in Table 1.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of MSI loci includes all of the loci listed in Table 1.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of MSI loci includes at least one locus on a chromosome listed in Table 1.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each locus in the plurality of MSI loci is positioned on a chromosome listed in Table 1.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the mapping the first plurality comprises mapping reads containing 3-6 base pairs, and wherein the mapping the second plurality comprises mapping reads containing 3-6 base pairs
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein mapping the first plurality of genomic sequencing reads comprises mapping at least 30-40 genomic sequencing reads from the tumor sample; and wherein mapping the second plurality of genomic sequencing reads comprises mapping at least 30-40 genomic sequencing reads from the normal sample.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, further comprising:
when mapping the first plurality of genomic sequencing reads, determining if at least 20-30 microsatellites meet a coverage minimum; and when mapping the second plurality of genomic sequencing reads, determining if at least 20- BO microsatellites meet a coverage minimum.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising: if at least 20-30 microsatellites do not meet the coverage minimum when mapping the second plurality of genomic sequencing reads, then replacing the mapping of the second plurality of genomic sequencing reads with mean and variance data from a trained sequencing data before performing the comparison.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising comparing the mapping of the first plurality to the mapping of the second plurality and determining the likelihood of microsatellite instability based on the comparison by measuring changes in the number of repeat units in the first plurality of genomic sequencing reads from the tumor specimen to the number of repeat units in the second plurality of genomic sequencing reads from the matched-normal specimen
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising comparing the mapping of the first plurality to the mapping of the second plurality and determining the likelihood of microsatellite instability based on the comparison using a Kolmogorov-Smirov test.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising determining the likelihood of microsatellite instability based on a p value.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the likelihood of microsatellite instability as microsatellite instability high (MSI-H), microsatellite stable (MSI-S), or microsatellite equivocal (MSI-E).
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein MSI-H is > about 70% probability, MSI-E is between about 50% and about 70% probability, and MSI-S is < about 50%, where "about" is defined as between 0% to 10% +/- difference.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising determining a therapeutic for a subject based on the determined likelihood of microsatellite instability.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the therapeutic is selected from the group consisting of fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin, irinotecan, Ipilimumab, nivolumab, Pembrolizumab, an anti-PD-Ll antibody (e.g., durvalumab), an anti-CTLA antibody (e.g., tremelimumab), and checkpoint inhibitor (e.g., PD-1 inhibitor, PD-L1 inhibitor, PD-L2 inhibitor, CTLA- 4 inhibitor).
17. A computing device configured to indicate a likelihood of microsatellite instability, the computing device comprising one or more processors configured to:
for each locus in a plurality of microsatellite instability (MSI) loci:
map a first plurality of genomic sequencing reads from a tumor specimen to the locus; map a second plurality of genomic sequencing reads from a matched-normal specimen to the locus;
compare the mapping of the first plurality to the mapping of the second plurality and determine the likelihood of microsatellite instability based on the comparison; and
generate a report indicating the determined likelihood of microsatellite instability.
18. The computing device of claim 17, wherein the plurality of MSI loci includes at least one locus listed in Table 1.
19. The computing device of claim 17, wherein the plurality of MSI loci includes all of the loci listed in Table 1.
20. The computing device of claim 17, wherein the plurality of MSI loci includes at least one locus on a chromosome listed in Table 1.
21. The computing device of claim 17, wherein each locus in the plurality of MSI loci is positioned on a chromosome listed in Table 1.
22. The computing device of claim 17, wherein the one or more processors are configured to map of the first plurality by mapping reads containing 3-6 base pairs, and wherein the one or more processors are configured to map the second plurality by mapping reads containing 3-6 base pairs
23. The computing device of claim 17, wherein the one or more processors are configured to map the first plurality of genomic sequencing reads by mapping at least 30-40 genomic sequencing reads from the tumor sample; and wherein the one or more processors are configured to map the second plurality of genomic sequencing reads by mapping at least 30-40 genomic sequencing reads from the normal sample.
24. The computing device of claim 23, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
when mapping the first plurality of genomic sequencing reads, determine if at least 20-30 microsatellites meet a coverage minimum; and
when mapping the second plurality of genomic sequencing reads, determine if at least 20- 30 microsatellites meet a coverage minimum.
25. The computing device of claim 24, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: if at least 20-30 microsatellites do not meet the coverage minimum when mapping the second plurality of genomic sequencing reads, then replace the mapping of the second plurality of genomic sequencing reads with mean and variance data from a trained sequencing data before performing the comparison.
26. The computing device of claim 17, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: compare the mapping of the first plurality to the mapping of the second plurality and determine the likelihood of microsatellite instability based on the comparison by measuring changes in the number of repeat units in the first plurality of genomic sequencing reads from the tumor specimen to the number of repeat units in the second plurality of genomic sequencing reads from the matched-normal specimen
27. The computing device of claim 17, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: compare the mapping of the first plurality to the mapping of the second plurality and determine the likelihood of microsatellite instability based on the comparison using a KolmogorovSmirov test.
28. The computing device of claim 27, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine the likelihood of microsatellite instability based on a p value.
29. The computing device of claim 17, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine the likelihood of microsatellite instability as microsatellite instability high (MSI-H), microsatellite stable (MSI-S), or microsatellite equivocal (MSI-E).
30. The computing device of claim 29, wherein MSI-H is > about 70% probability, MSI-E is between about 50% and about 70% probability, and MSI-S is < about 50%, where "about" is defined as between 0% to 10% +/- difference.
31. The computing device of claim 17, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine a therapeutic for a subject based on the determined likelihood of microsatellite instability.
32. The computing device of claim 31, wherein the therapeutic is selected from the group consisting of fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin, irinotecan, Ipilimumab, nivolumab, Pembrolizumab, an anti-PD-Ll antibody (e.g., durvalumab), an anti-CTLA antibody (e.g., tremelimumab), and checkpoint inhibitor (e.g., PD-1 inhibitor, PD-L1 inhibitor, PD-L2 inhibitor, CTLA-4 inhibitor).
</claims>
</document>
