<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0295,A61B5/1455
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN CHENG
HU, Xin Hua
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70155385
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NON-CONTACT MULTISPECTRAL IMAGING FOR BLOOD OXYGENATION LEVEL AND PERFUSION MEASUREMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Systems for non-contact imaging measurement of blood oxygen saturation and perfusion in a sample are provided including a control unit configured to facilitate acquisition of data from a sample; a data acquisition module coupled to the control unit, the data acquisition module configured to illuminate a field of view (FOV) of the sample using a plurality of wavelengths to provide a plurality of images corresponding to each of the plurality of wavelengths responsive to control signals from the control unit; and an image processing module configured calculate image saturation parameters and reflectance for each of the plurality of images having a unique acquisition time and unique wavelength and extracting blood volume and oxygen saturation data in the FOV using the calculated image saturation parameters and reflectance for each of the plurality of images having a unique acquisition time and unique wavelength.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for non-c ntaet imaging measurement of blood oxygen; saturation and periusiomm a sample, the system comprising:
a control xmit eonSgmed to: taciiitate acquisition of data from a sample;
a data acquisition module coupled to the control unit, the data acquisition module configured to illuminate a field of view (FOV) of the sample using a plurality of wavelengths to provide a plurality of images corresponding to each of the plurality of wavelengths: responsive to control signals from the control unit;: and
an image processing module configured calculate image saturation parameters an reflectance for each of the plurality of images having a unique acquisition time and unique wavelength and extracting blood volume and oxygen saturation data in the FOV using the calculated image saturation parameters and reflectance for each of the plurality of images having a unique acquisition time an unique wavelength.
2. The system of Claim 1, wherein the data acquisition module comprises:
a plurality of sets of light emitting diodes (LEDs) each having an associated wavelength; and
a camera coupled to the plurality of sets of LEDs, wherein each set of LEDs is: configured to illuminate the FOV of the saruple at the associated wavelength responsive to a unique driving current from the control unit to provide an image of the FO V ofthe: sample at the associate wavelength,
3. The system of Claim 2, wherein each of the plurality' of images are acquired at the associated plurality of wavelengths using a narro bandwidth in a range from about .2 run to about 5 Oran
4, The system of Claim 2. wherein the camera comprises a charge coupled device (CCD) camera and herein each of LEDs have an optical power of at least 500 mW per wavelength.
5. The system of Claim 1, wherein extracting blood volume and oxygen saturation data comprises extracting heart-rate based mapping of blood vessel vo lume changes an detecting blood oxygen saturation level.
6. The system of Claim 1 farther configured to obtai n a fused image of blood perfusion and oxygen saturation in skin tissues in a visible region and probe deeper tissue layers of lower dermis and cutaneous fat layers in near-infrared :{NIR) regions using the plurality of images obtained at the corresponding plurality of wavelengths.
?.. The sy stem of Claim 1 wherein the: system is handheld.
8. The system of Claim .1 , wherein the system is configured to self-calibrate,
9. A non-contact method for imaging measurement of bloo oxygen saturation and perfusion in a sample, the: method comprising:
illuminating a field of view (FQV) of the sample using a plurali ty of wavel engths to provide a. plurality of images corresponding: to each of the plurality of wavelengths responsive to control signals from a control unit; arid
esl ulaimg image saturation parameters and reflectance for each of the plurality of images having a unique acquisition time and unique wavelength:; and
extracting blood volume and: oxygen saturation data in the FOV using the calculate image saturation parameters and reflectance for each of the plurality of images havin a unique acquisition time and unique wavelength.
10. The method of Claim 9:
wherem illuminating further comprises illuminating the FOV of the sample using a plurality of sets: of light emitting diodes : (LEDs) eac having associated wavelength^ and wherein each set of LEDs is configured toiiluminaie the FDY of the sample at the associated wavelength responsive to a unique driving current from the control unit to provide an image of the FQ V of the sample at the associate wavelength. 11 , ie method of C laim 10, further comprising acquiring each of the plurality of images at: the associated plurality: of wavelengths using a narrow bandwidth in a range from about .2 !ffi to about SOrar·.
12, The metho of Clai 10, wherein the LEDs are associated with a camera, the camera comprising a charge coupled de ice: (CCD) camera and wherein each of LEDs have an optical power of at leastSGO mW per avelength,
13, The method of Claim 9, wherein extracting blood volume and qxygen saturation data comprises extracting heart-rate based m apping of blood vessel volume: changes and detecting blood oxygen saturation level.
14:. The: method of Claim further comprising obtaining a fused image of b load perfusion and oxygen saturation in skin tissues in a visible region and probe deeper tissue layers of lower dermis and cutaneous fat layers in near-infrared ( ffi.): regions using the plurality of images obtained at tie corresponding plurality of wavelengths
15 , The method q£ Claim 9 further comprising seif-calibrating a sy stem associated with die method
16. A computer program product for non-contact method for imaging measurement of blood oxygen saturation and perfusion in a sample, the computer program product comprising: a non-Mnsitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code embodied in the medium, the computer-readable: program code comprising:
computer readable program code to illuminate illuminating a field of view (FOV) of the sample using a pluralit of: wavelengths to provide a plurality of images : corresponding to each of the plurality of wavelengths responsive to control signals fern a controTuriit; and
computer readable program code to calculate image saturation parameters and reflectance for each of the plurality of images having a unique acquisiiion time and unique wavelength;: and computer readable program code to extract blood volume and oxygen saturation data in the FOV using the calculated image saturation parameters and reflectance for each of the plurality of images having a uni ue acquisition time and unique wavelength. 17 T¾e computer program product .of Claim 16:
wherein the computer readable program code to illuminate further comprises computer readable program code to illuminate the; FGV of the sample using a plurality of sets of light emitting d odes (LEDs) each haying an associated wa elength responsive to a unique driving: current from the: control unit to pro vide an image of the FO V of the sample at the assoc iated: wavelength.
18. The computer program product of Claim 17, further comprising computer readable program code to acquire each of the plurality of images at the associated plurality of wavelengths using a harrow bandwidth in a range from about .2 nm to about SCtam.
19. The computer program product of Claim 1 . wherein the computer readable program code .to extract blood volume and oxygen saturation data comprises computer readable program code to extract heart-rate based mapping of blood vessel volume: changes and detecting blood oxygen saturation level.
20. The computer program product of Claim 16, further comprising computer readable program code to obtain a fused image of blood perfusion and oxygen saturation in skin tissues i a visible region and probe deeper tissue layers of lower dermis and cutaneous fat layers in neM-mfrared (MIR) regions using the pkuality of images obtained at the corresponding pluraiity of wavelengths <
</claims>
</document>
