<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61K38/17,C12Q1/02,G01N33/50,G01N33/573,G06N5/00,G16B5/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ENFIN
</assignee>

<inventors>
GDYNIA, GEORG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64277486
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEANS AND METHODS FOR DETERMINING METABOLIC ADAPTATION
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to a method of determining a metabolic adaptation of a living entity of interest to a first set of environmental conditions and to a second set of environmental conditions comprising (a) determining with a first substrate concentration at least two activities of at least one enzyme comprised in a specimen of said living entity maintained under said first set of environmental conditions and at least two activities of said at least one enzyme comprised in a specimen of said living entity maintained under said second set of environmental conditions, wherein said activities are determined at two non-identical points in time t1 and t2 after starting the determining reaction; (b) determining with a second substrate concentration at least two activities of at least one enzyme comprised in a specimen of said living entity maintained under said first set of environmental conditions and at least two activities of said at least one enzyme comprised in a specimen of said living entity maintained under said second set of environmental conditions, wherein said activities are determined at two non-identical points in time t3 and t4 after starting the determining reaction; wherein said second substrate concentration is at most twofold, preferably is about equal to or lower than, the KM of said enzyme for said substrate; and (c) determining the metabolic adaptation of said living entity based on comparing at least one non-linear activity determined in step (a) and/or (b) to at least one further activity determined in step (a) and/ or (b).The present invention also relates to devices and further methods related thereto; as well as to a redox-fixed HMGB1 derivative polypeptide.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining a metabolic adaptation of a living entity of interest to a first set of environmental conditions and to a second set of environmental conditions comprising
(a) determining with a first substrate concentration at least two activities of at least one enzyme comprised in a specimen of said living entity maintained under said first set of environmental conditions and at least two activities of said at least one enzyme comprised in a specimen of said living entity maintained under said second set of environmental conditions, wherein said activities are determined at two non identical points in time ti and t2 after starting the determining reaction;
(b) determining with a second substrate concentration at least two activities of at least one enzyme comprised in a specimen of said living entity maintained under said first set of environmental conditions and at least two activities of said at least one enzyme comprised in a specimen of said living entity maintained under said second set of environmental conditions, wherein said activities are determined at two non identical points in time t3 and t4 after starting the determining reaction; wherein said second substrate concentration is at most twofold, preferably is about equal to or lower than, the KM of said enzyme for said substrate; and
(c) determining the metabolic adaptation of said living entity based on comparing at least one non-linear activity determined in step (a) and/or (b) to at least one further activity determined in step (a) and/ or (b).
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said first substrate concentration (i) is at least twofold, preferably at least fivefold, more preferably at least tenfold the KM of said enzyme for said substrate; or (ii) wherein said first substrate concentration is at most twofold, preferably is about equal to or lower than, the KM of said enzyme for said substrate and is non-identical to the second substrate concentration.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein at least step (c) is computerimplemented, preferably by training an automated machine learning algorithm with the data of steps (a) and (b) of cells having a known metabolic adaptation.
4. The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said first environmental condition is normoxia and wherein said second environmental condition is hypoxia and wherein said metabolic adaptation is switch of energy metabolism from oxidative phosphorylation under normoxia to glycolysis under hypoxia.
5. The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said at least one enzyme is pyruvate kinase, preferably pyruvate kinase M2.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein said substrate is pyruvate and wherein said first substrate concentration is 10 mM and wherein said second substrate concentration is 0.1 mM.
7. The method of claim 5 or 6, wherein a strong change in the activity of either highaffinity pyruvate kinase (PKHA) or low-affinity pyruvate kinase (PKLA) under hypoxic conditions as compared to the activity under normoxic conditions is indicative of a successful switch from oxidative phosphorylation under normoxia to glycolysis under hypoxia, and/or wherein a moderate or no change in the activity of either PKHA or PKLA under hypoxic conditions as compared to the activity under normoxic conditions, or a parallel change of both PKHA and PKLA, is indicative of an unsuccessful switch from oxidative phosphorylation under normoxia to glycolysis under hypoxia.
8. The method of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein at least one of said activities determined in steps (a) and (b) is a non-linear activity.
9. A device comprising a microprocessor and tangibly embedded an algorithm performing at least step (c) of the method of any one of claims 1 to 9 when executed on said microprocessor.
10. A method for determining an activation status of immune cells in a test sample comprising said immune cells, comprising
(a) incubating a first subportion of said test sample comprising immune cells under normoxic conditions,
(b) incubating a second subportion of said test sample comprising immune cells under hypoxic conditions,
(c) determining the activities of at least the enzymes high-affinity Pyruvate Kinase (PKHA) and low-affinity Pyruvate Kinase (PKLA) in cells of said first and second subportions,
(d) comparing said activities determined in step (c), and
(e) based on the result of comparison step (d), determining the activation status of the immune cells in said test sample.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein said method further comprises the steps of the method of any one of claims 1 to 8.
12. The method of claim 10 or 11, wherein said immune cells are peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), preferably are T-cells or hematopoietic stem cells, more preferably are CD34+ hematopoietic stem cells.
13. A method for determining the activity of at least one enzyme comprising contacting said at least one enzyme to an extract of a fixed cell sample, and determining the activity of said enzyme.
14. A method of determining a modulation of at least one enzyme activity by an extract of a fixed cell sample, comprising
(i) providing at least a first and a second aliquot of said at least one enzyme;
(ii) contacting said second aliquot with said extract of a fixed cell sample;
(iii) determining the activity of the first aliquot of step (i) and the activity of the second aliquot of step (ii);
(iv) comparing the activities of the first aliquot and the second aliquot determined in step (iii), and thereby
(v) determining a modulation of at least one enzyme activity by an extract of a fixed cell sample.
15. A method of providing a risk classification for a patient suffering from disease, comprising determining the activity of an enzyme according to claim 13 and/or determining a modulation of an enzyme activity by an extract of a fixed tissue sample according to claim 14, wherein said fixed cell sample is a sample of said subject.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein said method comprises the steps of the method of claim 15, and wherein said determining step (iii) further comprises
(I) determining with a first substrate concentration at least two activities of said first aliquot and at least two activities of said second aliquot, wherein said activities are determined at two non-identical points in time ti and t2 after starting the determining reaction; and
(II) determining with a second substrate concentration at least two activities of first aliquot and at least two activities of said second aliquot, wherein said activities are determined at two non-identical points in time t3 and t4 after starting the determining reaction; wherein said second substrate concentration is at most twofold, preferably is about equal to or lower than, the KM of said enzyme for said substrate.
17. The method of claim any one of claims 13 to 16, wherein said fixed cell sample is an aldehydefixed cell sample, preferably a formaldehydeand/or glutaraldehydefixed sample, preferably a formaldehydefixed sample.
18. A method of activating immune cells, comprising contacting immune cells in an activation state being non-active with an activator compound, wherein said activator compound is selected from a HMGB1 polypeptide or derivative thereof and an inhibitor of PKM2; preferably
wherein said activator compound is selected from the list consisting of
(i) a polypeptide comprising a HMGB1 polypeptide, preferably at least comprising Box B of HMGB1, more preferably comprising SEQ ID NO:2;
(ii) a polypeptide comprising a phosphorylated HMGB1 polypeptide, preferably comprising a polyphosphorylated Box B of human HMGB1; (iii) a polypeptide comprising an oligophosphorylated HMGB1 polypeptide or derivative thereof, wherein at least one of the tyrosine residues corresponding to amino acids Y109, Y144, Y155 and Y162 of the HMGB1 polypeptide was exchanged for a non-phosphorylatable amino acid, preferably glutamine;
(iv) a polypeptide comprising a HMGB1 polypeptide, wherein at least two cysteine residues, preferably two cysteine residues of the A-box, more preferably C23 and C45 are covalently connected via an alkyl bridge, preferably an ethyl-bridge;
(v) a polypeptide comprising a phospho-mimic HMGB1 polypeptide, wherein at least one of the tyrosine residues corresponding to amino acids Y109, Y144, Y155 and Y162 of the HMGB1 polypeptide was exchanged for an acidic amino acid, preferably glutamate;
(vi) a polypeptide comprising an SH-alkylated HMGB 1 polypeptide; and
(vii) any combination and/or mixture of (i) to (vi).
19. The method of claim 18, wherein said contacting is preceded by determining an activation status of said immune cells according to the method of any one of claims 10 to 12 and wherein immune cells determined to have an activation status being non-active are contacted to said activator compound.
20. A redoxfixed HMGB1 derivative polypeptide, preferably being a phospho-mimic HMGB1 derivative, more preferably wherein (i) at least two cysteine residues, preferably two cysteine residues of the A-box, more preferably C23 and C45, are covalently connected via an alkyl bridge, preferably an ethyl-bridge; and wherein at least one of the tyrosine residues corresponding to amino acids Y109, Y144, Y155 and Y162 of the HMGB1 polypeptide was exchanged for an acidic amino acid, preferably glutamate; or (ii) said polypeptide is an SH-alkylated HMGB1 polypeptide, wherein at least one of the tyrosine residues corresponding to amino acids Y109, Y144, Y155 and Y162 of the HMGB1 polypeptide was exchanged for an acidic amino acid, preferably glutamate.
</claims>
</document>
