<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/044,A61B5/0456,A61B5/046,A61B5/0464,A61B5/0472,A61N1/39,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDTRONIC
</assignee>

<inventors>
WARMAN, EDUARDO N.
KATRA, RODOLPHE
CHAKRAVARTHY, NIRANJAN
HADDAD, TAREK D.
MUSGROVE, DONALD R.
RADTKE, ANDREW
PEDALTY, Lindsay A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046448
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING BASED DEPOLARIZATION IDENTIFICATION AND ARRHYTHMIA LOCALIZATION VISUALIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques that include applying machine learning models to episode data, including a cardiac electrogram, stored by a medical device are disclosed. In some examples, based on the application of one or more machine learning models to the episode data, processing circuitry derives, for each of a plurality of arrhythmia type classifications, class activation data indicating varying likelihoods of the classification over a period of time associated with the episode. The processing circuitry may display a graph of the varying likelihoods of the arrhythmia type classifications over the period of time. In some examples, processing circuitry may use arrhythmia type likelihoods and depolarization likelihoods to identify depolarizations, e.g., QRS complexes, during the episode.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A medical device system comprising:
a medical device configured to:
sense a cardiac electrogram of a patient via a plurality of electrodes, and store episode data for an episode, wherein the episode is associated with a period of time, and the episode data comprises the cardiac electrogram sensed by the medical device during the period of time; and
processing circuitry configured to:
receive the episode data,
apply one or more machine learning models to the episode data, the one or more machine learning models configured to output a respective likelihood value for each of a pluralityof arrhythmia type classifications, each of the likelihood values representing a likelihood that the respective arrhythmia type classification occurred at any point during the period of time,
based on the application of the one or more machine learning models to the episode data, derive, for each of the arrhythmia type classifications, class activation data indicating varying likelihoods of the respective arrhythmia type classification over the period of time, and
display, to a user, a graph of the varying likelihoods of the arrhythmia type classifications over the period of time.
2. The medical device system of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitryis configured to display the graph in conjunction with the cardiac electrogram.
3. The medical device system of claim 1 or 2, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to indicate on the graph at least one time of higher likelihood for at least one of the arrhythmia type classifications relative to other times on the graph for the at least one arrhythmia type classification. 4. The medical device system of claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to:
indicate, based on the output of the one or more machine learning models, that the at least one arrhythmia type classification occurred at any point during the period of time; and indicate on the graph at least one time of higher likelihood for the at least one arrhythmia type classification in response to indicating that the at least one arrhythmia type classification occurred at any point during the period of time.
5. The medical device system of any of claims 1-4, wherein the plurality of arrhythmia type classifications includes a plurality of bradycardia, pause, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, supraventricular tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, sinus tachycardia, premature ventricular contraction, premature atrial contraction, wide complex tachycardia, and atrioventricular block.
6. The medical device system of any of claims 1-5, wherein each of the one or more machine learning models comprises a plurality of layers, and wherein deriving the activation data comprises deriving the activation data from an output of an intermediate layer of the plurality of layers.
7. The medical device system of claim 6, wherein the intermediate layer comprises a global average pooling layer.
8. The medical device system of any of claims 1-7,
wherein the one or more machine learning models comprise one or more arrhythmia classification machine learning models, the one or more arrhythmia classification machine learning models configured to output, for each of the plurality of arrhythmia type classifications, a respective set of arrhythmia type likelihood values, each of the arrhythmia type likelihood values of the set representing a likelihood that the respective arrhythmia type classification occurred at a respective time during the period of time, and
wherein the processing circuitry is configured to:
apply one or more depolarization detection machine learning models to the episode data, the one or more depolarization detection machine learning models configured to output a set of depolarization likelihood values, each of the depolarization likelihood values of the set representing a likelihood that a depolarization occurred at a respective time during the period of time; and
identify one or more depolarizations during the episode based on the arrhythmia type likelihood values and the depolarization likelihood values.
9. The medical device system of claim 8, wherein each of the one or more arrhythmia classification machine learning models comprises a plurality of layers, and the processing circuitry is configured to derive the sets of arrhythmia type likelihood values from an output of an intermediate layer of the plurality of layers.
10. The medical device system of claim 8 or 9, wherein, to identify the one or more depolarizations based on the arrhythmia type likelihood values and the depolarization likelihood values, the processing circuitry is configured to apply the one or more
depolarization detection machine learning models to the episode data and the arrhythmia type likelihood values.
11. The medical device system of any of claims 8-10, wherein, to identify the one or more depolarizations based on the arrhythmia type likelihood values and the depolarization likelihood values, the processing circuitry is configured to at least one of:
modify one or more of the depolarization likelihood values based on one or more of the arrhythmia type likelihood values; or
modify a depolarization likelihood threshold based on one or more of the arrhythmia type likelihood values.
12. The medical device system of any of claims 8-11, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to label each of the one or more identified depolarizations as one of a plurality of depolarization types based on the arrhythmia type likelihood values, wherein the plurality of depolarization types include a plurality of normal, premature ventricular contraction, premature atrial contraction, noise, or artifact.
13. The medical device system of any of claims 1-12, wherein the processing circuitry comprises processing circuitry of a computing device.
14. The medical device system of any of claims 1-13, wherein the medical device is implantable.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by processing circuitry' of a computing system, cause the computing system to: receive episode data for an episode stored by a medical device of a patient, wherein the episode is associated with a period of time, and the episode data comprises a cardiac electrogram sensed by the medical device during the period of time;
apply one or more machine learning models to the episode data, the one or more machine learning models configured to output a respective likelihood value for each of a plurality of arrhythmia type classifications, each of the likelihood values representing a likelihood that the respective arrhythmia type classification occurred at any point during the period of time;
based on the application of the one or more machine learning models to the episode data, derive, for each of the arrhythmia type classifications, class activation data indicating varying likelihoods of the respective arrhythmia type classification over the period of time; and
display a graph of the varying likelihoods of the arrhythmia type classifications over the period of time.
</claims>
</document>
