<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/041,G06N20/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHARGEPOINT
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUNGERFORD, Matthew Thomas
KHAMASHTA, Robert M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72334951
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRIC FIELD TOUCHSCREEN
</title>

<abstract>
An electric field (e-field) touchscreen is described. A continuous stream of digital signal data that represents e-field signal deviations is received from multiple receive electrodes. The stream of digital signal data is processed using a machine learning model to determine a touch event and a location on a display screen of the touchscreen. The touch event is processed. The e-field touchscreen may determine whether a non-normal event may be occurring causing noise in the digital signal data. If so, the received stream of digital signal data is processed through a low-pass filter and processed through an absolute value average baseline filter. A difference between the filtered data is determined to generate a filtered stream of digital signal data and is processed using the machine learning model determine a touch event and a location on a display screen of the touch event. The touch event is processed.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for an electric field (e-field) touchscreen, comprising:
continually receiving a stream of digital signal data that represents e-field signal
deviations detected from each of a plurality of receive electrodes, wherein a display screen of the e-field touchscreen includes four edges, and wherein the plurality of receive electrodes includes at least four electrodes located along the four edges of the display screen respectively;
processing the stream of digital signal data using a machine learning model to determine a touch event and a location on a display screen of the touchscreen; and processing the touch event.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model uses a deep neural network (DNN) regression model to predict the location and uses a DNN classifier model to predict the touch event has occurred.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
determining, from the received stream of digital signal data, that signal strength has dropped below a threshold; and
responsive to the determining that signal strength has dropped below the threshold, performing the following:
disabling baseline calibration for the stream of digital signal data; processing the received stream of digital signal data through a low-pass filter to generate a first filtered stream of digital signal data;
processing the received stream of digital signal data through an absolute value average baseline filter to determine an average of the absolute values of the received stream of digital signal data;
determining a difference between the first filtered stream of digital signal data and the average of the absolute values of the received stream of digital signal data to generate a second filtered stream of digital signal data; processing the second filtered stream of digital signal data using a machine learning model to determine a touch event and a location on a display screen of the touchscreen; and
processing the touch event.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising:
determining, from the continually received stream of digital signal data, that signal
strength is above the threshold for a predefined amount of time;
responsive to the determining that signal strength is above the threshold for the
predefined amount of time, performing the following:
reenabling baseline calibration for the stream of digital signal data; processing the received digital signal data using the machine learning model to determine a touch event and a location on a display screen of the touchscreen; and
processing the touch event.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the processing the received stream of digital signal data through the low-pass filter and the processing the received stream of digital signal data through the absolute value average baseline filter are performed concurrently.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the disabling baseline calibration on the stream of digital signal data includes transmitting a command to an e-field controller to disable baseline calibration.
7. An electric field touchscreen, comprising:
a set of one or more transmit electrodes that are configured to generate an electric field (e-field);
a plurality of receive electrodes that are each configured to sense an e-field variance; a controller configured to continuously receive signal data from the plurality of receive electrodes and output a stream of digital signal data that represents e-field signal deviations; and
an application processor configured to perform the following:
receive the stream of digital signal data,
process the received digital signal data using a machine learning model to
determine a touch event and a location on a display screen of the touchscreen, and
process the touch event.
8. The electric field touchscreen of claim 7, wherein the display screen includes four edges, and wherein the plurality of receive electrodes includes at least four receive electrodes located along the four edges of the display screen respectively.
9. The electric field touchscreen of claim 7, wherein the machine learning model is to use a deep neural network (DNN) regression model to predict the location and is to use a DNN classifier model to predict the touch event has occurred.
10. The electric field touchscreen of claim 7, wherein the application processor is further configured to perform the following:
determine, from the received stream of digital signal data, whether signal strength has dropped below a threshold;
responsive to a determination that the signal strength has dropped below the threshold, perform the following:
disable baseline calibration for the stream of digital signal data,
process the received stream of digital signal data through a low-pass filter to generate a first filtered stream of digital signal data, process the received stream of digital signal data through an absolute value
average baseline filter to determine an average of the absolute values of the received stream of digital signal data;
determine a difference between the first filtered stream of digital signal data and the average of the absolute values of the received stream of digital signal data to generate a second filtered stream of digital signal data;
process the second filtered stream of digital signal data using a machine learning model to determine a touch event and a location on a display screen of the touchscreen; and
process the touch event.
11. The electric field touchscreen of claim 10, wherein the application processor is further configured to perform the following:
determine, from the received stream of digital signal data, whether that signal strength is above the threshold for a predefined amount of time; and
responsive to a determination that signal strength is above the threshold for the
predefined amount of time, perform the following:
reenable baseline calibration for the stream of digital signal data, process the received digital signal data using the machine learning model to
determine a touch event and a location on a display screen of the touchscreen, and
process the touch event.
12. The electric field touchscreen of claim 10, wherein processing of the received stream of digital signal data through the low-pass filter and processing of the received stream of digital signal data through the absolute value average baseline filter are to be performed concurrently.
13. The electric field touchscreen of claim 10, wherein disablement of baseline calibration on the stream of digital signal data includes a command to be transmitted to the controller to disable baseline calibration.
14. A nontransitory machine-readable storage medium that provides instructions that, if executed by a processor of an electric field (e-field) touchscreen, will cause said processor to perform operations comprising:
continually receiving a stream of digital signal data that represents e-field signal
deviations detected from each of a plurality of receive electrodes, wherein a display screen of the e-field touchscreen includes four edges, and wherein the plurality of receive electrodes includes at least four electrodes located along the four edges of the display screen respectively;
processing the stream of digital signal data using a machine learning model to determine a touch event and a location on a display screen of the touchscreen; and processing the touch event.
15. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the machine learning model uses a deep neural network (DNN) regression model to predict the location and uses a DNN classifier model to predict the touch event has occurred.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the
operations further comprise:
determining, from the received stream of digital signal data, that signal strength has dropped below a threshold; and
responsive to the determining that signal strength has dropped below the threshold, performing the following:
disabling baseline calibration for the stream of digital signal data; processing the received stream of digital signal data through a low-pass filter to generate a first filtered stream of digital signal data; processing the received stream of digital signal data through an absolute value average baseline filter to determine an average of the absolute values of the received stream of digital signal data;
determining a difference between the first filtered stream of digital signal data and the average of the absolute values of the received stream of digital signal data to generate a second filtered stream of digital signal data; processing the second filtered stream of digital signal data using a machine
learning model to determine a touch event and a location on a display screen of the touchscreen; and
processing the touch event.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the
operations further comprise:
determining, from the continually received stream of digital signal data, that signal strength is above the threshold for a predefined amount of time; responsive to the determining that signal strength is above the threshold for the
predefined amount of time, performing the following:
reenabling baseline calibration for the stream of digital signal data; processing the received digital signal data using the machine learning model to determine a touch event and a location on a display screen of the touchscreen; and
processing the touch event.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the
operations further comprise, wherein the processing the received stream of digital signal data through the low-pass filter and the processing the received stream of digital signal data through the absolute value average baseline filter are performed concurrently.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the
operations further comprise, wherein the disabling baseline calibration on the stream of digital signal data includes transmitting a command to an e-field controller to disable baseline calibration.
</claims>
</document>
