<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61H7/00,A61K38/48,A61N1/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAHANA THERAPEUTICS, INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
PAULL, Robert
OSER, Megan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74044818
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADAPTIVE INTERVENTIONS FOR GASTROINTESTINAL HEALTH CONDITIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for GI health condition monitoring and improvement, where the method includes steps for receiving signals associated with the GI condition, the signals encoding physiological data, behavioral data, environmental stress data, emotional data, and cognitive data of the user; determining a characterization of the GI condition upon processing the set of signals with a model; based upon the characterization, modulating content of a treatment comprising a set of components, the set of components comprising a subset of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) components for improving a state of the user; and administering the treatment to the user. The system and method can be provided as a prescription digital therapeutic for improving patient outcomes for users with GI health conditions.
</abstract>

<claims>
We Claim:
1. A method comprising:
establishing an interface between a device and a user;
from the interface, receiving a set of signals associated with a gastrointestinal (GI) condition of the user, wherein the set of signals encodes physiological data, behavioral data, environmental stress data, emotional data, and cognitive data of the user;
determining a characterization of the GI condition upon processing the set of signals with a model;
based upon the characterization, modulating content of a treatment comprising a set of components, the set of components comprising a subset of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) components for improving a state of the user; and
administering the personalized treatment to the user.
2. The method of Claim l, wherein physiological data captured in the set of signals comprises pain characteristics, digestive characteristics, and defecation characteristics of the user tagged with symptom severity.
3. The method of Claim 2, wherein behavioral data captured in the set of signals comprises social behavior characteristics of the user extracted from a communication subsystem of a mobile device of the user.
4. The method of Claim 3, wherein cognitive data of the user captured in the set of signals comprises thought patterns associated with behaviors, anxiety characteristics, depression characteristics, and emotional characteristics of the user.
5. The method of Claim 4, wherein determining the characterization comprises returning a mapping with a network of flows between a set of behaviors specific to the user, a set of thoughts specific to the user, a set of physiological symptoms specific to the user, a set of emotions specific to the user, and environmental triggers specific to the user, with returned outputs configured to disrupt flows of the network contributing to deterioration of symptoms of the user.
6. The method of Claim l, further comprising:
generating a combined dataset upon applying a first set of transformations to an aggregate dataset including physiological data, behavioral data, environmental stress data, emotional data, and cognitive data from a set of users exhibiting a form of the GI condition;
collecting a treatment dataset comprising treatment outcome labels associated with the subset of CBT components applied to the set of users;
creating a first training dataset comprising the combined dataset and the treatment dataset; and
training the model with the first training dataset.
7. The method of Claim 6, wherein the model comprises architecture for receiving data objects associated with at least one of: physiological data, behavioral data, environmental stress data, emotional data, and cognitive data of the user, and returning a set of outputs comprising a selection of treatment subcomponents tagged with efficacy indicators, the method further comprising modulating content of the treatment based upon the selection returned by the model.
8. The method of Claim l, wherein the subset of CBT components comprises a prescription digital therapeutic (PDT), delivered through a client device of the user, with materials for adjusting gut and neurological activity of user having the GI condition, through pain management therapy, social behavior training, cognitive flexibility exercises, and behavioral repertoire changes.
9. The method of Claim 8, wherein the treatment further comprises a subset of nonCBT components comprising at least one of: an antibiotic, an antidepressant, an antispasmodic, a 5-hydroxytryptamine 4 agonist, a laxative, an anti-diarrheal medication, a probiotic, and a selective C-2 chloride channel activator.
10. The method of Claim 9, wherein modulating content of the treatment comprises adjusting an amount of the PDT relative to an amount of the subset of non-CBT components provided to the user, based upon a returned output of the model.
11. The method of Claim 1, wherein providing the treatment comprises generating instructions for adjusting activation of an environmental control device in an
environment of the user, in coordination with monitoring a change in pain symptoms of the user, thereby producing an adjustment in pain intensity and duration associated with the GI condition of the user.
12. The method of Claim 11, wherein the environmental control device comprises operation modes for at least one of: an audio output, a thermal parameter adjustment, a visually-observed output, a haptic output, and a light output in the environment of the user.
13. The method of Claim 1, wherein providing the treatment comprises generating a scripted communication for transmission to an entity associated with the user, in coordination with monitoring a change in a physiological symptom of the user, thereby preventing an adverse social interaction involving the user, due to the GI condition.
14. The method of Claim 13, further comprising receiving, through the interface, a reward sensitivity dataset characterizing motivation and reinforcement contingencies and behavior of the user, and modulating aspects of the treatment upon processing the reward sensitivity dataset with the model.
15. A system comprising:
an input device providing an interface with a user; and
a processing subsystem in communication with the input device and comprising a non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions stored thereon, that when executed by the processing subsystem perform one or more steps of:
receiving from the interface, a set of signals associated with a gastrointestinal (GI) condition of the user, wherein the set of signals encodes physiological data, behavioral data, environmental stress data, emotional data, and cognitive data of the user;
determining a characterization of the GI condition upon processing the set of signals with a model;
based upon the characterization, modulating content of a treatment comprising a set of components, the set of components comprising a subset of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) components for improving a state of the user; and
administering the treatment to the user.
16. The system of Claim 15, further comprising an output device comprising an operation mode for administering the treatment to the user.
17. The system of Claim 16, wherein at least one of the output device and the treatment is provided to the user as a prescription therapeutic available upon diagnosis of the GI condition of the user.
18. The system of Claim 17, wherein the output device comprises an environmental control device in an environment of the user, wherein the processing subsystem further comprises instructions for adjusting the operation mode in coordination with
monitoring a change in pain symptoms of the user, thereby producing an adjustment in pain intensity and duration associated with the GI condition of the user, and wherein the operation mode provides at least one of: an audio output, a thermal parameter adjustment, a visually-observed output, a haptic output, and a light output in the environment.
19. The system of Claim 17, wherein the output device comprises a communication device comprising architecture for transmitting communications between the user and an entity associated with the user, wherein the processing subsystem further comprises instructions for generating a scripted communication for transmission to an entity associated with the user, in coordination with monitoring a change in a physiological symptom of the user.
20. The system of Claim 15, wherein the input device comprises a set of biometric sensors in communication with the user and configured to generate physiological data, from the user with the GI condition.
</claims>
</document>
