<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/16,G06Q20/32,G06Q20/36,H04L12/825,H04L12/851,H04W28/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ERIKSSON, HANS
SHARMA, NIPUN
SABHARWAL, TUSHAR
BAJPAI, RAKESH
BHARDWAJ, RAJIV
MENEAR, Steve
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73782182
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USER PRIORITIZATION DURING CONGESTION BASED ON MOBILE MONEY REVENUE INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method is provided. The method includes receiving an indication of a current or predicted congestion event; and receiving information about a first user, wherein the information about the first user includes revenue information based on usage of a mobile money service. The method further includes determining a priority for the first user based on the information about the first user; and taking an action in response to the congestion event, wherein the action is based on the priority for the first user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising:
receiving an indication of a current or predicted congestion event;
receiving information about a first user, wherein the information about the first user includes revenue information based on usage of a mobile money service;
determining a priority for the first user based on the information about the first user; and taking an action in response to the congestion event, wherein the action is based on the priority for the first user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the congestion event includes a resource utilization rate being greater than a threshold.
3. The method of any one of claims 1-2, wherein receiving information about the first user comprises receiving revenue information associated with the first user and receiving revenue information associated with a second user, wherein the second user is associated with the first user and wherein the association is determined based on the revenue information based on usage of the mobility money service.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the second user is associated with the first user based on the first user paying one or more bills for the second user utilizing the mobile money service.
5. The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the action taken in response to the congestion event comprises assigning the first user to a network slice based on the priority for the first user.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein assigning the first user to the network slice based on the priority for the first user comprises allowing the first user to be assigned a first network slice only if the priority for the first user is determined to be a high priority.
7. The method of any one of claims 5-6, wherein assigning the first user to the network slice based on the priority for the first user further comprises one of (i) disallowing the first user to be assigned any network slice if the priority for the first user is determined to be a low priority; and (ii) allowing the first user to be assigned a second network slice different from the first network slice if the priority for the first user is determined to be a low priority.
8. The method of any one of claims 5-7, wherein receiving the indication of the current or predicted congestion event comprises receiving network slice load information from an Operations Support System (OSS) node.
9. The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the action taken in response to the congestion event comprises one or more of:
changing a Radio Access Technology (RAT) type of the first user based on the priority for the first user;
changing a frequency assigned to the first user based on the priority for the first user; moving the first user from a first network slice to a second network slice based on the priority for the first user; and
moving the first user from a 3 GPP radio access to a non-3GPP radio access based on the priority for the first user.
10. The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the action taken in response to the congestion event comprises tuning traffic-shaping polices in a gateway based on the priority for the first user, wherein tuning trafficshaping policies includes one or more of (i) setting a maximum bitrate for the first user and (ii) re-mapping a quality-of-service (QoS) value for the first user.
11. The method of any one of claims 1-10, wherein receiving information about the first user and determining the priority for the first user are performed by a Network Data Analytic Function (NWDAF) node.
12. The method of any one of 5-8, wherein assigning the first user to a network slice based on the priority for the first user comprises a Network Data Analytic Function (NWDAF) node receiving a request from one or more of a Network Slice Selection Function (NSSF) node and an Access Management Function (AMF) node.
13. A node (800) comprising:
a data storage system (808); and
a data processing apparatus comprising a processor (855), wherein the data processing apparatus is coupled to the data storage system (808), and the data processing apparatus is configured to:
receive an indication of a current or predicted congestion event;
receive information about a first user, wherein the information about the first user includes revenue information based on usage of a mobile money service;
determine a priority for the first user based on the information about the first user; and take an action in response to the congestion event, wherein the action is based on the priority for the first user.
14. The node (800) of claim 13, wherein the congestion event includes a resource utilization rate being greater than a threshold.
15. The node (800) of any one of claims 13-14, wherein receiving information about the first user comprises receiving revenue information associated with the first user and receiving revenue information associated with a second user, wherein the second user is associated with the first user and wherein the association is determined based on the revenue information based on usage of the mobility money service.
16. The node (800) of claim 15, wherein the second user is associated with the first user based on the first user paying one or more bills for the second user utilizing the mobile money service.
17. The node (800) of any one of claims 13-15, wherein the action taken in response to the congestion event comprises assigning the first user to a network slice based on the priority for the first user.
18. The node (800) of claim 17, wherein assigning the first user to the network slice based on the priority for the first user comprises allowing the first user to be assigned a first network slice only if the priority for the first user is determined to be a high priority.
19. The node (800) of any one of claims 17-18, wherein assigning the first user to the network slice based on the priority for the first user further comprises one of (i) disallowing the first user to be assigned any network slice if the priority for the first user is determined to be a low priority; and (ii) allowing the first user to be assigned a second network slice different from the first network slice if the priority for the first user is determined to be a low priority.
20. The node (800) of any one of claims 17-19, wherein receiving the indication of the current or predicted congestion event comprises receiving network slice load information from an Operations Support System (OSS) node. 21. The node (800) of any one of claims 13-16, wherein the action taken in response to the congestion event comprises one or more of:
changing a Radio Access Technology (RAT) type of the first user based on the priority for the first user;
changing a frequency assigned to the first user based on the priority for the first user; moving the first user from a first network slice to a second network slice based on the priority for the first user; and
moving the first user from a 3 GPP radio access to a non-3GPP radio access based on the priority for the first user.
22. The node (800) of any one of claims 13-16, wherein the action taken in response to the congestion event comprises tuning traffic-shaping polices in a gateway based on the priority for the first user, wherein tuning trafficshaping policies includes one or more of (i) setting a maximum bitrate for the first user and (ii) re-mapping a quality-of-service (QoS) value for the first user.
23. The node (800) of any one of claims 13-22, wherein receiving information about the first user and determining the priority for the first user are performed by a Network Data Analytic Function (NWDAF) node.
24. The node (800) of any one of claims 17-20, wherein assigning the first user to a network slice based on the priority for the first user comprises a Network Data Analytic Function (NWDAF) node receiving a request from one or more of a Network Slice Selection Function (NSSF) node and an Access Management Function (AMF) node.
25. A node (800) comprising: a receiving unit (900) configured to receive an indication of a current or predicted congestion event;
the receiving unit (900) configured to receive information about a first user, wherein the information about the first user includes revenue information based on usage of a mobile money service;
a determining unit (900) configured to determine a priority for the first user based on the information about the first user; and
an action unit (900) configured to take an action in response to the congestion event, wherein the action is based on the priority for the first user.
26. A computer program comprising instructions which when executed by processing circuitry (802) of a node (800) causes the node (800) to perform the method of any one of claims 1 12
27. A carrier containing the computer program of claim 26, wherein the carrier is one of an electronic signal, an optical signal, a radio signal, and a computer readable storage medium.
</claims>
</document>
