<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M16/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SUNOVION PHARMACEUTICALS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BROWN, SPENCER
DE ANA ARBELOA, FRANCISCO JAVIER
GORDON, JOSEPH
METZ, MICHAEL
NELSON, DANIEL
PARK, JAE HONG
SEGAL, MICHAEL
TOYJANOVA, JENNET
ABEL, Nathan
SCANLON, Sean
SKUJINS, Janis
GOODIN, Thomas
CROSLAND, Everett
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72940967
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NEBULIZER MONITORING DEVICE, SYSTEM AND METHOD CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein are devices, systems and methods for monitoring the use of a nebulized medication, such as can be administered using a nebulizer. These can be used for monitoring a patient undergoing treatment for COPD and improve compliance to the recommended therapy. Monitored parameters include flow, humidity and acceleration and provide data as to the quantity and quality of nebulizer use.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A nebulizer monitoring device comprising;
a first connector adapted to engage a nebulizer mount,
a second connector adapted to engage a nebulizer mouthpiece,
a conduit having an inner surface forming a fluid connection between the first connector and second connector,
a flow sensor disposed in the conduit and between the first connector and the second connector, and configured to measure a flow rate vector of fluid in the conduit, and at least one indicator connected to the flow sensor,
at least one controller connected to the flow sensor and the first indicator
whereby at least one dimension of the at least one indicator changes as a function of a measured flow rate vector.
2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the at least one indicator includes at least one light source.
3. The device according to claim 2, wherein the change in the dimension of the at least one indicator includes a change in intensity of light emitted from the at least one light source.
4. The device according to claim 3, wherein the at least one light source comprises a first light emitting diode (LED) and the change in intensity of light emitted by the first LED changes as function of the measured fluid flow rate vector.
5. The device according to claim 4, wherein the at least one indicator includes a second LED light having a different color than that of the first LED light and the first light is illuminated when the measured fluid flow rate vector is in a first direction, and the second light is illuminated when the measured fluid flow rate vector is in a second direction.
6. The device according to claim 2, wherein the at least one light source comprises at least two light emitting diodes (LEDs) and a change in the dimension of the at least one indicator includes a change in the state of at least one of the two LEDs.
7. The device according to claim 6, wherein the at least one light source includes an array of LEDs that are illuminated in sequence such that the indicator is perceived as a lengthening indicator and the perceived lengthening is a function of the measured flow rate vector, and wherein a direction of lengthening indicates the vector direction of the measured flow rate vector.
8. The device according to claim 1, wherein the first indicator comprises an audible indicator comprising at least one sound emitting device.
9. The device according to claim 8, wherein the dimension of the audible indicator is one or more of amplitude, frequency and pattern of sound emitted by the at least one sound emitting device.
10. The device according to claim 1, wherein the first indicator comprises a tactile indicator comprising one or more of vibrating devices, radiant heat devices and topography changing devices.
11. The device according to claim 10, wherein the tactile indicator includes a vibrating device and the dimension of the audible indicator includes one or more of intensity and frequency of a vibration.
12. The device according to claim 1, wherein the flow sensor includes a differential pressure sensor or a flow meter.
13. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a humidity sensor disposed in or connected to the conduit between the nebulizer mount and the mouth piece and configured to measure humidity in the conduit;
whereby at least one dimension of the at least one indicator changes as a function of the measured flow rate vector and the measured humidity from the humidity sensor.
14. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a usage indicator including an array of light emitting diodes (LEDs) connected to the at least one controller, wherein the at least one controller is configured to: turn off all LEDs of the usage indicator at a predefined time;
turn on one LED of the usage indicator in a predefined order after the controller receives a plurality of measured flow rate vectors from the flow sensor for a predefined minimum time followed by a measure of no flow rate vector by the flow sensor for a predefined time.
15. The device according to claim 14, wherein the usage indicator is a visual indicator comprising an array of LED lights wherein each dose taken after a designated start time is indicated by a sequential illumination of an LED in the array, and the array is reset by turning off of all of the LEDs at a predefined time of day.
16. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a humidity sensor disposed in or connected to the conduit between the nebulizer mount and the mouth piece and configured to measure humidity in the conduit and transmit a measure of humidity in the conduit to the at least one controller; and
a usage indicator including an array of light emitting diodes (LEDs) connected to the at least one controller, wherein the at least one controller is configured to:
turn off all LEDs of the usage indicator at a predefined time;
turn on one LED of the usage indicator in a predefined order after the controller receives measured flow rate vectors indicating flow in the conduit, and the controller receives a plurality of measures of humidity over a predefined amount of time and wherein the average of the plurality of measures of humidity over the predefined time is above a predefined threshold.
17. The device according to claim 16, wherein the usage indicator is a visual indicator comprising an array of LED lights wherein each dose taken after a designated start time is indicated by a sequential illumination of an LED in the array, and the array is reset by turning off of all of the LEDs at a predefined time of day.
18. The device according to claim 16, wherein the threshold is a relative humidity of 80%.
19. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a temperature sensor configured to contact at least one lip of a user, when the device is in use for administering a medication to the user, and wherein the at least one controller is connected to the temperature sensor.
20. The device according to claim 17, wherein the temperature sensor is disposed at a first end of the mouthpiece that is configured for insertion in the user's mouth, such that when the user inserts the mouthpiece into their mouth, the temperature sensor is positioned to measure a temperature of at least a portion of the user's lip.
21. The device according to claim 19, wherein the second connector extends along a first axis and further comprising an arm extending along the first axis outside the conduit such that the arm extends along the mouthpiece when the mouthpiece is connected to the second connector; and
wherein a first portion of the arm includes the temperature sensor, and a second portion of the arm is connected to the conduit and connects the temperature sensor to the at least one controller.
22. The device according to claim 21, wherein first portion of the arm is configured to align with the mouthpiece such that the first portion of the arm contacts at least a portion of the user's lip when the user inserts the mouthpiece into their mouth.
23. The device according to claim 21, wherein the arm includes a hinge connecting the arm to the conduit or wherein the arm is flexible and the first portion is configured to attach to the mouthpiece when the device is being used.
24. The device according to claim 19, wherein the temperature sensor includes a thermistor.
25. The device according to claim 1, further comprising an accelerometer connected to the at least one controller.
26. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a battery connected to the at least one controller, and a charging circuit for charging said battery.
27. The device according to claim 26, wherein the battery charging circuit includes an induction coil configured for inductive charging.
28. A system for nebulizer use comprising;
the nebulizer monitoring device according to claim 1, and
a base station in in wireless communication with the nebulizer monitoring device.
29. The system according to claim 28, wherein the nebulizer monitoring device includes a battery connected to the at least one controller, and a charging circuit for charging said battery; and the base station includes a port configured to receive the nebulizer monitoring device and for charging of the nebulizer monitoring device.
30. The system according to claim 28, wherein the base station includes an induction coil and the nebulizer monitoring device includes an induction coil such that when the nebulizer monitoring devices is received by the base station, the base station inductively charges the nebulizer monitoring device.
31. The system according to claim 28, wherein the base station includes a plurality of pogo-pins and the nebulizer monitoring device includes a plurality of electric contact pads, such that when the nebulizer monitoring devices is received by the base station, at least two pogo-pins of the base station make contact with two contact pads of the nebulizer monitoring device and transfer electrical energy to the nebulizer monitoring device to charge the battery.
32. The system according to claim 28, wherein the base station includes at least one environmental monitoring sensor and a controller connected to the at least one environmental monitoring sensor configured to receive and store environmental sensor data from the at least one environmental monitoring sensor.
33. The system according to claim 32, wherein the at least one environment monitoring sensor includes at least one of a VOC sensor, a CO2 sensor, a humidity sensor, a temperature sensor, mold sensor, pollen sensor, spore sensor, bacteria sensor and a particulate sensor.
34. The system according to claim 28, wherein the base station includes a network interface such that the base station can transfer data to a remote computer system.
35. The system according to claim 34, wherein the remote computer system includes at least one processor and associated member and is configured to receive and store data from the base station.
</claims>
</document>
