<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/34,G06K9/62,G06K9/72
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THOMSON REUTERS ENTPR CENTRE GMBH
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMMAR KHALED
ZUBERT BRIAN
KHAN SAKIF HOSSAIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70802899
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REPRESENTATIVE DOCUMENT HIERARCHY GENERATION
</title>

<abstract>
In some aspects, a method includes performing optical character recognition (OCR) based on data corresponding to a document to generate text data, detecting one or more bounded regions from the data based on a predetermined boundary rule set, and matching one or more portions of the text data to the one or more bounded regions to generate matched text data. Each bounded region of the one or more bounded regions encloses a corresponding block of text. The method also includes extracting features from the matched text data to generate a plurality of feature vectors and providing the plurality of feature vectors to a trained machine-learning classifier to generate one or more labels associated with the one or more bounded regions. The method further includes outputting metadata indicating a hierarchical layout associated with the document based on the one or more labels and the matched text data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining hierarchical layouts of documents from data, the method comprising:
performing optical character recognition (OCR) based on data corresponding to a document to generate text data;
detecting one or more bounded regions from the data based on a predetermined
boundary rule set, wherein each bounded region of the one or more bounded regions encloses a corresponding block of text;
matching one or more portions of the text data to the one or more bounded regions to generate matched text data, the matched text data indicating, for each block of text represented by the matched text data, an association with a corresponding bounded region of the one or more bounded regions;
extracting features from the matched text data to generate a plurality of feature
vectors;
providing the plurality of feature vectors to a trained machine-learning classifier to generate one or more labels associated with the one or more bounded regions, each label of the one or more labels indicating a level of a corresponding bounded region within a document hierarchy; and
outputting metadata indicating a hierarchical layout associated with the document based on the one or more labels and the matched text data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the data does not include metadata indicating a predefined document structure associated with the document.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the hierarchical layout comprises a table of contents associated with the document.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined boundary rule set includes pixel distance rules, pixel location rules, pixel characteristic rules, region shape rules, or a combination thereof.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein matching the one or more portions of the text data to the one or more bounded regions comprises, for a first bounded region of the one or more bounded regions: identifying a first block of noisy text enclosed within the first bounded region from the data; and
selecting a first portion of the text data as matching the first bounded region based on a similarity of the first block of noisy text to the first portion of the text data satisfying a threshold.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing text correction on the matched text data, the text correction comprising semantic matching, longest common sub string detection, or a combination thereof.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising training the trained machine learning classifier using training data generated based on a user input from a human operator, the user input indicating user-generated labels of one or more sections of one or more documents.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising training the trained machine learning classifier based on training metadata received from a document processing application, the training metadata indicating hierarchical layouts of one or more documents.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying a particular field in the document based on the matched text data and the metadata.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising linking the document to one or more other documents in a database based on the particular field matching one or more corresponding fields in the one or more other documents.
11. A system comprising:
an optical character recognition (OCR) engine configured to perform OCR based on data corresponding to a document to generate text data;
a bounded region detector configured to detect one or more bounded regions from the data based on a predetermined boundary rule set, wherein each bounded region of the one or more bounded regions encloses a corresponding block of text;
a text matcher configured to match one or more portions of the text data to the one or more bounded regions to generate matched text data, the matched text data indicating, for each block of text represented by the matched text data, an association with a corresponding bounded region of the one or more bounded regions;
a feature extractor configured to extract features from the matched text data to
generate a plurality of feature vectors;
a trained machine-learning classifier configured to generate one or more labels
associated with the one or more bounded regions based on the plurality of feature vectors, each label of the one or more labels indicating a level of a corresponding bounded region within a document hierarchy; and an output generator configured to output metadata indicating a hierarchical layout associated with the document based on the one or more labels and the matched text data.
12. The system of claim 11, further comprising:
a database coupled to the OCR engine, the bounded region detector, the text matcher, the feature extractor, the output generator, or a combination thereof.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the database is configured to store the data, additional data corresponding to one or more other documents, the metadata, additional metadata indicating hierarchical layouts of at least one of the one or more other documents, or a combination thereof.
14. The system of claim 11, further comprising:
a processor; and
a memory storing instructions executable by the processor to cause the processor to perform one or more operations of the OCR engine, the bounded region detector, the text matcher, the feature extractor, the trained machine-learning classifier, the output generator, or a combination thereof.
15. The system of claim 11, further comprising:
an interface configured to enable communication with a data source that stores the data, an electronic device, or a combination thereof.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein each bounded region of the one or more bounded regions is represented by a set of coordinates corresponding to one or more positions within one or more physical pages of the document.
17. A computer-based tool including non-transitory computer readable media having stored thereon computer code which, when executed by a processor, causes a computing device to perform operations comprising:
performing optical character recognition (OCR) based on data corresponding to a document to generate text data;
detecting one or more bounded regions from the data based on a predetermined
boundary rule set, wherein each bounded region of the one or more bounded regions encloses a corresponding block of text;
matching one or more portions of the text data to the one or more bounded regions to generate matched text data, the matched text data indicating, for each block of text represented by the matched text data, an association with a corresponding bounded region of the one or more bounded regions;
extracting features from the matched text data to generate a plurality of feature
vectors;
providing the plurality of feature vectors to a trained machine-learning classifier to generate one or more labels associated with the one or more bounded regions, each label of the one or more labels indicating a level of a corresponding bounded region within a document hierarchy; and
outputting metadata indicating a hierarchical layout associated with the document based on the one or more labels and the matched text data.
18. The computer-based tool of claim 17, wherein a first feature vector of the plurality of feature vectors includes an embedding that represents a first portion of the matched text data that is enclosed in a first bounded region of the one or more bounded regions, a statistical summary based on the first portion of the matched text data, and information associated with a graphical structure of the first bounded region.
19. The computer-based tool of claim 17, wherein the one or more labels indicate whether the one or more bounded regions are headers, section titles, subsection titles, or paragraphs.
20. The computer-based tool of claim 17, wherein the document comprises a contract, a legal document, or a governance document.
</claims>
</document>
