<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B47/00,G01V11/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CGG SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
JENSON, FRED
JOHNSTON, JOE
RANGANATHAN, CHIRANJITH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65685832
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATICALLY DETECTING AND CORRECTING ANOMALIES IN LOG DATA
</title>

<abstract>
A geological exploration method starts by obtaining measurements and calculating properties along boreholes in an area of interest to generate log data including plural curves. Anomalies are detected along at least one curve of one of the boreholes. A machine learning regressor is trained using one or more curves without anomaly values of the one of the boreholes and/or of another similar borehole among the boreholes, to predict a synthetic curve corresponding to the at least one curve. The synthetic curve is then blended into the at least one curve.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A geological exploration method (1300) comprising:
obtaining (1310) measurements and calculating property values along boreholes in an area of interest to generate log data including plural curves;
detecting (1320) anomalies along at least one curve of one of the boreholes; training (1330) a machine learning regressor using one or more curves without anomaly values of the one of the boreholes and/or of another similar borehole among the boreholes, to predict a synthetic curve corresponding to the at least one curve; and
blending (1340) the synthetic curve into the at least one curve,
wherein any curve is a set of measurements or calculated property values associated with depth values.
2. The method of claim 1 , further comprising:
flagging the anomalies detected along the at least one curve,
wherein the blending includes replacing the flagged anomalies with values on the synthetic curve.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein the anomalies are detected using an ensemble of methods including at least one of an isolation forest method, a densitybased spatial clustering method and an interquartile range technique.
4. The method of claim 1 , wherein the anomalies are detected using an isolation forest technique.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein a contamination value used by the isolation forest method is determined by applying an interquartile range technique to differential caliper measurements.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein a contamination value used by the isolation forest method is determined by applying an elbow-plot variance method to a number of outliers versus contamination value plot. 7. The method of claim 1 , wherein the anomaly detection uses a densitybased spatial clustering method (DBScan).
8. The method of claim 7, wherein values of eps and minPts parameters used by DBScan are predetermined.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein a value of eps parameter used by DBScan is predetermined, and a value of minPts parameter used by DBScan is determined by applying an elbow-plot variance method to a number of outliers versus minPts value plot.
10. The method of claim 1 , wherein the anomaly detection uses an interquartile range technique.
1 1. The method of claim 1 , wherein the blending uses a pay zone flag in addition to an anomaly flag associated to each detected anomaly, wherein values of the anomaly flag are determined using a resistivity curve's interquartile range cut off, and the pay zone flag is set for lowest gamma ray values or determined using values of a curve other than the at least one curve.
12. The method of claim 1 , wherein the measurements include neutron porosity, density, and hole geometry besides one or more of a shallow and/or deep resistivity, sonic photoelectric, gamma ray and spontaneous potential.
13. The method of claim 1 , wherein the calculated properties include one or more of shale volume, water saturation, porosity, permeability, elasticity, reflectivity coefficient. 14. The method of claim 1 , further comprising:
obtaining seismic data for the area of interest; and
applying an inversion method to the seismic data to generate a threedimensional image of underground formation in the area of interest, wherein the inversion method is calibrated using blended curves of the measurements and/or properties along one or more of the boreholes in the area of interest.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising:
planning hydrocarbon extraction based on reservoir characterization provided by the three-dimensional image; and extracting hydrocarbon according to the planning.
16. An underground exploration apparatus (1200) comprising:
an interface (1208) configured to obtain measurements and calculating property values along boreholes in an area of interest to generate log data including plural curves; and
a data processing module (1201 ) connected to the interface, including at least one processor and configured
to detect anomalies along at least one curve of one of the boreholes, to train a machine learning regressor using one or more curves without anomaly values of the one of the boreholes and/or of another similar borehole among the boreholes, to predict a synthetic curve corresponding to the at least one curve, and
to blend the synthetic curve into the at least one curve,
wherein any curve is a set of measurements or calculated property values associated with depth values.
17. The underground exploration apparatus of claim 16, wherein the data processing module is further configured to flag the anomalies detected along the at least one curve, and when blending the synthetic curve into the at least one curve to replace the flagged anomalies with values on the synthetic curve.
18. The underground exploration apparatus of claim 16, wherein the data processing module detects the anomalies using an isolation forest method, a density-based spatial clustering (DBScan) method, an interquartile range (IQR) technique or an ensemble of methods including at least one of the isolation forest method, the DBScan method and the IQR technique. 19. The underground exploration apparatus of claim 16, wherein the data processing module uses a pay zone flag in addition to an anomaly flag associated to each detected anomaly for blending the synthetic curve into the at least one curve, wherein values of the anomaly zone flag are determined using a resistivity curve's interquartile range cut off, and the pay zone flag is set for lowest gamma ray values or determined using values of a curve other than the at least one curve.
20. The underground exploration apparatus of claim 16, wherein the measurements include neutron porosity, density, and hole geometry besides one or more of a shallow and/or deep resistivity, sonic photoelectric, gamma ray and spontaneous potential, and/or
the calculated properties include one or more of shale volume, water saturation, porosity, permeability, elasticity, reflectivity coefficient.
21. The underground exploration apparatus of claim 16, wherein the interface is further configured to obtain seismic data for the area of interest, and
the data processing module is further configured
to apply an inversion method to the seismic data to generate a threedimensional image of underground formation in the area of interest, wherein the inversion method is calibrated using blended curves of the measurements and/or properties along one or more of the boreholes in the area of interest, and
to generate a plan of hydrocarbon extraction based on reservoir characterization provided by the three-dimensional image.
</claims>
</document>
