<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63B24/00,A63B71/06,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BISWAS, SUDIPTA
SAXENA, SHIVAM
</assignee>

<inventors>
BISWAS, SUDIPTA
SAXENA, SHIVAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69592477
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING A BINARY OUTPUT BASED ON INPUT PACKETS OF DATA
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides a system and method for providing a binary output based on input packets of data pertaining to an event. The system is configured to: receive a first dataset of visual data pertaining to one or more first attributes associated with the event; determine presence of the one or more first attributes from the received first dataset of visual data based on a processed visual data; receive a second dataset of audio data pertaining to one or more second attributes associated with the event; and determine presence of the one or more second attributes from the received second dataset of audio data based on a processed audio data, wherein, based on presence of the one or more first attributes and the one or more second attributes, a binary output is provided pertaining to the event.
</abstract>

<claims>
We Claim:
1. A system for providing a binary output based on input packets of data pertaining to an event, said system comprising:
a memory operatively coupled to one or more processors, the memory storing instructions executable by the one or more processors to:
receive, from one or more first sensors operatively coupled with one or more elements involved in the event, a first dataset of data pertaining to one or more first attributes associated with the event;
determine presence of the one or more first attributes from the received first dataset of data based on a processed first data, said processed first data obtained from processing, by the one or more processors, the received first dataset of data based on a first parameter;
receive, from one or more second sensors operatively coupled with the one or more elements involved in the event, a second dataset of data pertaining to one or more second attributes associated with the event; and
determine presence of the one or more second attributes from the received second dataset of data based on a processed second data, said processed second data obtained from processing, by the one or more processors, the received second dataset of data based on a second parameter,
wherein, based on presence of any or a combination of the one or more first attributes and the one or more second attributes, a binary output is provided pertaining to the event.
2. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein a log of data pertaining to any or a combination of the first dataset of data and the second dataset of data is provided as output.
3. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein one or more third dataset of data is additionally provided from an external source, and wherein the one or more third dataset is additionally processed to provide the binary output.
4. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the one or more first sensors are any or a combination of image sensors and depth sensors configured to detect presence and movement of the one or more elements involved in the event, and wherein the first dataset comprises data from either or both of image sensors and depth sensors.
5. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the one or more second sensors are audio sensors configured to detect sounds produced due to engagement of any or all of the one or more elements involved in the event.
6. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein a neural network is configured to process any or a combination of the received first dataset of data and the received second dataset of data.
7. The system as claimed in claim 6, wherein the neural network is trained based on any or a combination of a plurality of first training datasets and a plurality of second training datasets pertaining to the event, said first training datasets and second training datasets being stored in a database operatively coupled with the system.
8. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the neural network is configured to predict engagement of the one or more elements involved in the event based on historical data pertaining to location of the one or more elements at a plurality of instances preceding the event.
9. A method for providing a binary output based on input packets of data pertaining to an event, said method comprising the steps of:
receiving, at a computing device from one or more first sensors operatively coupled with one or more elements involved in the event, a first dataset of visual data pertaining to one or more first attributes associated with the event;
determining, at the computing device, presence of the one or more first attributes from the received first dataset of visual data based on a processed visual data, said processed visual data obtained from processing, by the one or more processors, the received first dataset of visual data based on a first parameter;
receiving, at the computing device from one or more second sensors operatively coupled with one or more elements involved in the event, a second dataset of audio data pertaining to one or more second attributes associated with the event; and
determining, at the computing device, presence of the one or more second attributes from the received second dataset of audio data based on a processed audio data, said processed audio data obtained from processing, by the one or more processors, the received second dataset of audio data based on a second parameter, wherein, based on presence of any or a combination of the one or more first attributes and the one or more second attributes, a binary output is provided pertaining to the event.
10. The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein a log of data pertaining to any or a combination of the first dataset of data and the second dataset of data is provided as output.
11. The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein one or more third dataset of data is additionally provided from an external source, and wherein the one or more third dataset is additionally processed to provide the binary output.
12. The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein a neural network is configured to process any or a combination of the received first dataset of data and the received second dataset of data.
13. The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the neural network is trained based on any or a combination of a plurality of first training datasets and a plurality of second training datasets pertaining to the event, said first training datasets and second training datasets being stored in a database operatively coupled with the system.
14. The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the neural network is configured to predict engagement of the one or more elements involved in the event based on historical data pertaining to location of the one or more elements at a plurality of instances preceding the event.
</claims>
</document>
