<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12N15/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BLAINEY, PAUL
MIT (MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLAINEY, PAUL
BORRAJO, JACOB
NAJIA, MOHAMAD
LE, Hong Anh Anna
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70391156
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONSTRUCTS FOR CONTINUOUS MONITORING OF LIVE CELLS
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention provides for methods to obtain transcriptome-wide multiple information-rich samples from living cells while minimally disrupting the cell. The subject matter disclosed herein is generally related to nucleic acid constructs for continuous monitoring of live cells. Specifically, the subject matter disclosed herein is directed to nucleic acid constructs that encode a fusion protein and a construct RNA sequence that induce live cells to self-report cellular contents while maintaining cell viability. The present invention may be used to monitor gene expression in single cells while maintaining cell viability.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A nucleic acid construct comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a fusion protein and a construct RNA sequence, the fusion protein comprising a secretion-inducing domain and a construct RNA sequence capture domain comprising about 20 amino acids to about 400 amino acids, the construct RNA sequence comprising a retrieval element and a cellular RNA capture element, wherein expression of the fusion protein in one or more cells induces export of cellular RNAs bound to the cellular RNA capture element, the RNA capture domain .
2. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1, wherein the secretion-inducing element self-assembles upon expression to form an export compartment.
3. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1 or 2, further encoding one or more of: an inducible promoter to control expression of the nucleic acid sequence encoding the fusion protein;
an affinity tag such that the affinity tag is displayed with the secretion inducing domain when expressed;
a linker sequence of a particular size, the size of the linker sequence controlling the rate of formation of an export compartment, a size of the export compartment, or both;
a detectable self-reporting molecule to detect successful delivery and expression of the nucleic acid constructs;
a barcode sequence in the construct RNA sequence; and
a nuclear export sequence in the construct RNA sequence to facilitate export of construct RNA sequences to the cytoplasm.
4. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1 to 3, wherein the secretion-inducing protein is a viral capsid protein.
5. The nucleic acid construct of claim 4, wherein the viral capsid protein is a Gag protein.
6. The nucleic acid construct of claim 5, wherein the Gag protein is a lentivirus Gag protein.
7. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid sequence encoding the secretion-inducing protein is SEQ ID NO: l.
8. The nucleic acid construct of any one of the preceding claims wherein the construct RNA sequence encodes one or more CCCH ZnF.
9. The nucleic acid construct of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the construct RNA sequence capture domain encodes a Poly(A) Binding Protein (PABP), Nab2 protein, or a fragment or variant thereof.
10. The nucleic acid construct of claim 8, wherein the construct RNA sequence capture domain encodes a PABP capture domain optionally from human PABPC4, or a fragment or variant thereof.
11. The nucleic acid construct of claim 9, wherein the Nab2 protein is from S. cerevisiae or C. thermophilum.
12. The nucleic acid construction of claim 11, wherein the construct RNA sequence encodess S. cerevisiae Nab2 ZnF 5-7 or C. thermophilum Nab2 ZnF 3-5.
13. The nucleic acid construct of claim 9, wherein the construct RNA sequence is RRM1+RRM2 from human PABPC4.
14. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1, wherein the construct RNA sequence capture domain is about 20 amino acids to about 300 amino acids, optionally is less than about 200 amino acids.
15. The nucleic acid construct of claim 9, wherein the Nab2 protein comprises a polynucleotide comprising about 59 amino acids of S. cerevisiae or a polynucleotide encoding about 56 amino acids of C. thermophilum
16. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1, wherein the construct RNA sequence comprises an RNPl sequence motif, an RNP2 sequence motif, or a combination thereof, from an RNA Recognition Motif domain.
17. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1, wherein the construct RNA sequence comprises at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98% or at least 99% sequence identity with the construct RNA sequence of any one of claims 8-16.
18. The nucleic acid construct of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the nucleic acid sequence encoding the retrieval domain of the construct RNA sequence is SEQ ID NO: 10
19. The nucleic acid construct of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the retrieval element on the construct RNA sequence is a dCas9 guide RNA sequence or a MS2 hairpin sequence.
20. The nucleic acid construct of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the cellular RNA capture element of the construct RNA sequence is a poly-U sequence.
21. The nucleic acid construct of claim 20, wherein the poly-U sequence is approximately 15 to approximately 50 nucleotides long.
22. The nucleic acid construct of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the cellular RNA capture element comprises a (UUG)n motif.
23. The nucleic acid construct of claim 22, wherein n is approximately 1 to approximately 20.
24. The nucleic acid construct of claim 2, wherein the barcode is a randomized nucleic acid sequence of approximately 10 to approximately 40 nucleotides.
25. The nucleic acid construct of any one of claims 1 to 24, wherein the secretioninducing protein self-assembles to form an export compartment approximately 10 nm to approximately 500 nm in diameter.
26. A vector comprising the nucleic acid construct of any one of claims 1 to 25.
27. The vector of claim 26, wherein the vector is a non-viral vector.
28. The vector of claim 26, wherein the vector is a viral vector.
29. A system comprising the nucleic acid construct of any one of the preceding claims and a nucleic acid construct expressing a nuclear export protein that facilitates nuclear export of the construct RNA sequence via the nuclear export sequence of the construct RNA sequence.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein the nuclear export sequence is a viral nuclear export protein.
31. The system of claim 30, wherein the viral export protein is a Rev viral protein
32. A kit comprising the nucleic acid construct of any one of claims 1 to 31.
33. A kit comprising the vectors of any one of claims 26 to 28.
34. A kit comprising the system of any one of claims 20 to 22.
35. A method for continuous monitoring of live cells comprising:
delivering into one or more cells a nucleic acid construct encoding a fusion protein and a construct RNA sequence, the fusion protein comprising a secretion-inducing domain and a construct RNA sequence capture domain, and the construct RNA sequence comprising a retrieval element, a barcode, and a cellular RNA capture element;
expressing the nucleic acid construct in the one or more cells;
capturing cellular RNA expressed in the one or more cells by binding the cellular RNA via the cellular RNA capture element of the construct RNA sequence; exporting the cellular RNA from the cell by binding of the fusion protein construct RNA capture element to the retrieval element of the construct RNA such that the cellular RNA is exported from the cell in association with the secretion-inducing domain, wherein the secretion-inducing domain self-assembles to form an export vesicle; and
isolating the exported vesicles containing captured cellular RNA transcripts at one or more time points.
36. The method of claim 35, further comprising:
generating a RNA-DNA duplex by reverse transcribing the captured cell RNA transcript using the construct RNA sequence as a primer for reverse transcription;
generating a DNA-DNA duplex by converting the construct RNA sequence to a corresponding DNA sequence with a second strand synthesis using a DNA primer such that the barcode sequence is included in the DNA-DNA duplex;
generating a sequencing library from the generated DNA-DNA duplexes;
sequencing the sequencing library to identify the captured cell mRNA transcripts wherein the one or more cells from which the cellular RNA transcripts were isolated are identified from the sequenced barcode.
37. The method of claim 35, wherein the wherein the nucleic acid construct is the nucleic acid construct of any one of claims 1 to 25.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the monitoring is performed in vitro.
39. The method of claim 37, wherein the monitoring is performed in vivo.
40. The method of claim 37, wherein the cells are eukaryotic cells.
41. The method of claim 37, wherein the cells are mammalian cells.
42. The method of claim 35, wherein the barcode can be amplified by a cell and used to mark cellular components of the cell according to cell of origin.
43. The method of claim 35, wherein the barcode comprises a randomized nucleic acid sequence of approximately 10 to approximately 40 nucleotides.
44. The method of claim 35, wherein the nucleic acid construct further comprises a searchable filter sequence, wherein the filter is set a fixed distance from the barcode and can be used to identify the barcode in downstream sequencing reads.
45. The method of any of the previous claims, wherein the nucleic acid construct further comprises an adapter sequence, wherein the adapter provides a complementary binding site for a reverse transcription primer.
46. The method of any of claims 42 to 45, further comprising a sequencing primer binding site complementary to one or more sequencing primers.
47. The method of any of claims 42 to 46, wherein the barcode is unique to an individual cell origin or cell lineage, and further comprising
incorporating the barcode of the expressed nucleic acid construct to the captured cellular RNA to generate barcoded cellular RNA, thereby labeling in components of a cell according to cell of origin or cell lineage.
48. The method of claim 47, wherein the barcode is attached to the cellular RNA by use of the nucleic acid construct to prime first strand synthesis of the captured cellular RNA template.
49. The method of claim 47, wherein the barcode is attached to the cellular RNA by ligation of the nucleic acid construct to the cellular RNA by RNA-RNA ligation.
50. The method of claim 47, wherein the barcode is attached to the cellular RNA by further priming second strand synthesis.
51. The method of claim 47, further comprising amplifying the barcoded cellular
RNA.
52. The method of claim 51, wherein the barcoded cellular RNA is amplified by RNA-dependent RNA synthesis.
53. The method of claim 52, wherein the RNA-dependent RNA synthesis is facilitated by T7 RNAP.
54. The method of claim 51, wherein the barcoded cellular RNA is amplified by
PCR.
55. The method of claim 51, wherein the barcoded cellular RNA is amplified by linear DNA amplification.
</claims>
</document>
