<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B29C64/393
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HEWLETT-PACKARD DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SANROMA GARRIT, JORDI
FREIRE GARCIA, MANUEL
GURDIEL GONZALEZ, ENRIQUE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73029044
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GEOMETRICAL COMPENSATION MODELS
</title>

<abstract>
In an example, a machine-readable medium stores instructions which, when executed by a processor may cause the processor to modify data for characterising geometrical modifications for use by each of a plurality of additive manufacturing apparatus, wherein a modification for a particular additive manufacturing apparatus is based on dimensions of objects generated by that apparatus.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1 A method comprising:
acquiring, by at least one processor, data for characterising geometrical modifications to apply to object model data representing at least a portion of an object to be generated by an additive manufacturing apparatus by fusing build material within a fabrication chamber to compensate for anticipated deformations in object generation;
acquiring, by at least one processor, a first data set comprising an indication of deviations between intended object dimensions and generated object dimensions for objects generated by a first additive manufacturing apparatus;
modifying, by at least one processor, the data for characterising geometrical modifications based on the first data set; and
deriving, by at least one processor, a geometrical compensation model based on the modified data, wherein the derived geometrical compensation model is to compensate for anticipated deformations in object generation by the first additive manufacturing apparatus.
2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the data for characterising geometrical modifications comprises a first geometrical compensation model and the method further comprises modifying, by at least one processor, the first geometrical compensation model based on the indications of deviations to derive a second geometrical compensation model to compensate for anticipated deformations in object generation by the first additive manufacturing apparatus. 85687758
3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the data for characterising geometrical modifications comprises a second data set based on indications of deviations between intended object dimensions and generated object dimensions for objects generated by a plurality of additive manufacturing apparatus and wherein modifying the data comprises combining the first and second data sets, wherein the data of the first data set is given a greater weighting than data relating to objects generated by any other additive manufacturing apparatus
4. A method according to claim 1 further comprising:
acquiring, at the at least one processor, an indication of deviations between intended object dimensions and generated object dimensions for objects generated by a second additive manufacturing apparatus; and
modifying, by the at least one processor, the data for characterising geometrical modifications based on the indication of deviations between intended object dimensions and generated object dimensions for objects generated by the second additive manufacturing apparatus to derive a geometrical compensation model to compensate for anticipated deformations in object generation by the second additive manufacturing apparatus.
5. A method according to claim 1 further comprising:
transmitting the geometrical compensation model to the first additive manufacturing apparatus.
6. A method according to claim 1 further comprising:
validating data providing the indication of deviations between intended object dimensions and generated object dimensions to determine if the data falls within an expected range.
7. A method according to claim 1 in which the derived geometrical compensation model specifies a plurality of parameters comprising at least one of 85687758 a scaling factor and an offset value, wherein each of the parameters is associated with a different location of object generation within a fabrication chamber.
8. Additive manufacturing apparatus comprising processing circuitry, wherein the additive manufacturing apparatus is to generate a calibration object batch, wherein the deviations between intended object dimensions and generated object dimensions for objects of the calibration object batch are used to derive a first geometrical transformation model,
the processing circuitry comprising:
an object data modification module to apply a geometrical transformation to object model data describing an object to be generated in additive
manufacturing according to the first geometrical transformation model.
9. Apparatus according to claim 8 further comprising a data acquisition module to acquire data indicative of deviations between intended object dimensions and generated object dimensions for objects generated by the additive manufacturing apparatus.
10. Apparatus according to claim 8 further comprising an object generation instructions module to determine object generation instructions for generating at least one object, the object generation instructions specifying an amount of print agent to be applied to each of a plurality of locations on a layer of build material, and being determined based on object model data modified using the first geometrical transformation model.
1 1. A machine-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to:
modify data for characterising geometrical modifications for use by each of a plurality of additive manufacturing apparatus, wherein a modification for a particular additive manufacturing apparatus is based on dimensions of objects generated by that apparatus. 85687758
12. A machine-readable medium according to claim 11 wherein the
instructions are to modify the data to generate a geometrical compensation model which comprises at least one scaling factor and/or at least one offset value, where in each of the scaling factors and each of the offset values is associated with one of three orthogonal axes.
13. A machine-readable medium according to claim 11 wherein the
modification is further based on a location of object generation.
14. A machine-readable medium according to claim 11 wherein the
modification is based on dimensions of a plurality of predetermined test objects.
15. A machine-readable medium according to claim 11 further comprising instructions to cause the processor to transmit a geometrical compensation model to the additive manufacturing apparatus which generated the objects used to determine the modification.
</claims>
</document>
