<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
I.D. SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
EHRMAN, MICHAEL
WOLFE CHRIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69947633
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CARGO SENSORS, CARGO-SENSING UNITS, CARGO-SENSING SYSTEMS, AND METHODS OF USING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
A cargo-sensing unit including: an image sensor; a transceiver; at least one processor; and a memory having stored thereon computer program code that, when executed by the processor, controls the at least one processor to: receive, from a controlling server and through the transceiver, an instruction to capture an image of cargo space within a cargo container; control the image sensor to capture an image of the cargo space in response to receiving the instruction; and operate in accordance with a determined cargo container status based on an analysis of the captured image.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A cargo-sensing unit comprising:
an image sensor;
a transceiver;
at least one processor; and
a memory having stored thereon computer program code that, when executed by the processor, controls the at least one processor to:
receive, from a controlling server and through the transceiver, an instruction to capture an image of cargo space within a cargo container;
control the image sensor to capture an image of the cargo space in response to receiving the instruction; and
operate in accordance with a determined cargo container status based on an analysis of the captured image.
2. The cargo-sensing unit of claim 1, wherein
the instruction to capture the image comprises an image capturing schedule, and the computer program code controls the at least one processor to instruct the image sensor to capture image of the cargo space in accordance to the image capturing schedule.
3. The cargo-sensing unit of claim 1 , wherein the computer program code controls the at least one processor to determine the cargo container status by applying a classification model to the captured image.
4. The cargo-sensing unit of claim 3, wherein the classification model determines whether cargo has shifted within the cargo container.
5. The cargo-sensing unit of claim 4, wherein the computer program code controls the at least one processor to receive, from a modeling server and through the transceiver, the classification model.
6. The cargo-sensing unit of claim 5, wherein the computer program code controls the at least one processor to output, through the transceiver, the captured image to the modeling server, the modeling server being configured to modify the classification model based on the captured image.
7. The cargo-sensing unit of claim 5, wherein the computer program code controls the at least one processor to output, through the transceiver, the captured image to the modeling server, the modeling server being configured to perform a secondary analysis of the captured image.
8. The cargo-sensing unit of claim 1 , wherein the computer program code further controls the at least one processor to:
receive, from a weight sensor within the cargo container, indications of a shift of cargo within the cargo container; and
control the image sensor to capture an image of a cargo space within a cargo container in response to receiving the indications of the shift of the cargo.
9. A cargo-sensor controlling server comprising:
a transceiver;
at least one processor; and
a memory having stored thereon computer program code that, when executed by the processor, controls the at least one processor to:
receive, from a cargo-sensing unit and through the transceiver, cargo container status information of a cargo container;
output, to the cargo-sensing unit and through the transceiver, an instruction to capture an image of cargo space within the cargo container; and
receive, from the cargo-sensing unit and through the transceiver, a captured image of the cargo space.
10. The cargo-sensor controlling server of claim 9, wherein the computer program code further controls the at least one processor to:
receive, from a user device, a request to view the cargo space; and
output the captured image of the cargo space to the user device.
11. The cargo-sensor controlling server of claim 10, wherein the instruction to capture the image of cargo space is output in response to receiving the request from the user device.
12. The cargo-sensor controlling server of claim 10, wherein the computer program code controls the at least one processor to a most recent captured image to the user device in response to receiving the request from the user device.
13. The cargo-sensor controlling server of claim 9, wherein the computer program code controls the at least one processor to output, to the cargo-sensing unit and through the transceiver, the instruction to capture an image of the cargo space based on an image capturing schedule.
14. The cargo-sensor controlling server of claim 13, wherein the computer program code controls the at least one processor to receive, from a user device, an indication to adjust the image capturing schedule.
15. A cargo-monitoring method comprising:
receiving, from a cargo-sensing unit, cargo container status information of a cargo container;
transmitting, to the cargo-sensing unit, an instruction to capture an image of cargo space within the cargo container; and
receiving, from the cargo-sensing unit, a captured image of the cargo space.
16. The cargo-monitoring method of claim 15 further comprising analyzing the captured image to determine cargo container status, the cargo container status comprising at least one from among a cargo load quality, a cargo load type, and a cargo load percentage.
17. The cargo -monitoring method of claim 16 further comprising determining, based on the cargo container status, cargo unloading requirements for cargo in the cargo container, the cargo unloading requirements comprising at least one from among, space requirements to store the cargo, devices necessary to unload the cargo, and recommended number of workers to unload the cargo.
18. The cargo-monitoring method of claim 16 wherein determining the cargo load quality comprises classifying the captured image, utilizing a trained classifier model, to determine the cargo load quality.
19. The cargo-monitoring method of claim 18 further comprising:
detecting, from the captured image, a cargo shift; and
updating, in response to detecting the cargo shift, the trained classifier model with a previous image of the cargo space.
20. The cargo-monitoring method of claim 15 further comprising:
receiving, from one or more cargo sensors, an indication of movement of cargo within the cargo container; and
capturing an image of the cargo space in response to receiving the indication of the movement of the cargo.
</claims>
</document>
