<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/063,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LANDMARK GRAPHICS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MADASU, SRINATH
RANGARAJAN, KESHAVA PRASAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73028762
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HYBRID NEURAL NETWORK AND AUTOENCODER
</title>

<abstract>
A physics-influenced deep neural network (PDNN) model, or a deep neural network incorporating a physics-based cost function, can be used to efficiently denoise sensor data. To generate the PDNN model, noisy sensor data is used as training data input to a deep neural network and training output is valuated with a cost function that incorporates a physics-based model. An autoencoder can be coupled to the PDNN model and trained with the reduced-noise sensor data which is output from the PDNN during training of the PDNN or with a separate set of sensor data. The autoencoder detects outliers based on the reconstructed reduced-noise sensor data which it generates. Denoising sensor data by leveraging an autoencoder which is influenced by the physics of the underlying domain based on the incorporation of the physics-based model in the PDNN facilitates accurate and efficient denoising of sensor data and detection of outliers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising :
training a deep neural network (DNN) based on sensor data and a cost function, wherein the cost function incorporates a physics-based model;
determining reduced-noise sensor data with the DNN during training of the DNN;
passing the reduced-noise sensor data to an autoencoder; and
training the autoencoder based on the reduced-noise sensor data to generate a trained autoencoder, wherein the autoencoder outputs a reconstructed representation of the reduced-noise sensor data.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising:
inputting at least a subset of the sensor data into the trained autoencoder; and
generating a reconstructed reduced-noise representation of the sensor data with the
trained autoencoder.
3. The method of claim 2 further comprising detecting at least a first outlier in the sensor data based, at least in part, on comparing the sensor data and the reconstructed reduced-noise representation of the sensor data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the cost function comprises a cost function of the form
wherein f(z) is the physics-based model, 2 is a multiplier value, z is a value of the sensor data, W is a domain space on which z is defined, and y is the reduced-noise sensor data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein training the DNN and training the autoencoder are performed simultaneously.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining reduced-noise sensor data with the DNN comprises determining the reduced-noise sensor data as a solution to a partial differential equation (PDE) through constrained optimization, wherein the PDE incorporates the physicsbased model.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the physics-based model comprises a differentiable physics-based function in the oil and gas domain.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the physics-based model comprises at least one of Burgers' equation, Darcy's law, and a hydraulic fracturing model equation.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor data comprises at least one of fluid velocity data, pressure data, temperature data, fluid viscosity data, fluid density data, weight on bit data, and drill bit rotational velocity data.
10. One or more non-transitory machine-readable media comprising program code for denoising sensor data, the program code to:
based on receiving sensor data, input at least a first subset of the sensor data into a deep neural network (DNN),
generate a first set of reduced-noise sensor data based, at least in part, on the first subset of the sensor data and a physics-based model;
evaluate the first set of reduced-noise sensor data based on a calculation of a value of a cost function, wherein the cost function incorporates the physics-based model; and
generate a trained DNN from the DNN based on evaluation of the first set of reducednoise sensor data.
11. The non-transitory machine-readable media of claim 10, further comprising program code to:
pass the first set of reduced-noise sensor data which is output during generation of the trained DNN to a first autoencoder; and
train the first autoencoder based on the first set of reduced-noise sensor data to generate a first trained autoencoder.
12. The non-transitory machine-readable media of claim 11, further comprising program code to:
input at least a second subset of the sensor data into the first trained autoencoder;
determine a first set of reconstructed reduced-noise sensor data based on output of the first trained autoencoder; and
detect at least a first outlier of at least one of the second subset of the sensor data and the first set of reconstructed reduced-noise sensor data.
13. The non-transitory machine-readable media of claim 10, wherein the cost function comprises a cost function of the form
wherein f(z) is the physics-based model, 2 is a multiplier value, z is a value of a first of the sensor data, W is a domain space on which z is defined, and y is a value from the first set of reduced-noise sensor data.
14. The non-transitory machine-readable media of claim 10, further comprising program code to:
obtain a second set of reduced-noise sensor data, wherein the second set of reduced-noise sensor data is generated by the trained DNN;
input the second set of reduced-noise sensor data into a second trained autoencoder; and determine a second set of reconstructed reduced-noise sensor data based on output of the second trained autoencoder.
15. An apparatus comprising:
a processor; and
a machine -readable medium having program code executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to,
train a deep neural network (DNN) based on sensor data and a cost function, wherein the cost function incorporates a physics-based model;
determine reduced-noise sensor data with the DNN during training of the DNN; pass the reduced-noise sensor data to an autoencoder; and
train the autoencoder based on the reduced-noise sensor data to generate a trained autoencoder, wherein the autoencoder outputs a reconstructed representation of the reduced-noise sensor data.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising program code executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to:
input at least a subset of the sensor data into the trained autoencoder; and
generate a reconstructed reduced-noise representation of the sensor data with the trained autoencoder.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the cost function comprises a cost function of the form
wherein f(z) is the physics-based model, 2 is a multiplier value, z is a value of the sensor data, W is a domain space on which z is defined, and y is the reduced-noise sensor data.
18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein program code executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to determine reduced-noise sensor data with the DNN comprises program code executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to determine the reduced-noise sensor data as a solution to a partial differential equation (PDE) through constrained optimization, wherein the PDE incorporates the physics-based model.
19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the DNN and autoencoder are trained simultaneously.
20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the physics-based model comprises a differentiable physics-based function in the oil and gas domain.
</claims>
</document>
