<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W72/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHANG, WENTING
NIU, HUANING
TALARICO, SALVATORE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70471076
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USER EQUIPMENT CONFIGURATION FOR OPERATING IN AN UNLICENSED SPECTRUM
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are methods, systems, apparatus, and computer programs for configuring a UE to operate within an unlicensed spectrum. In one aspect, a method includes receiving from a radio access network (RAN) a first uplink scheduling grant; determining, based on the first uplink scheduling grant, that an uplink communications grant has not been received for a first uplink subframe of an uplink burst, wherein the uplink burst comprises an ordered plurality of uplink subframes; determining that the first uplink scheduling grant schedules communication in a second uplink subframe of the uplink burst; and performing, in response to the determination, a mitigating action to avoid a communication error with the RAN.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. In a communication system comprising a radio access network (RAN) operating in an unlicensed radio frequency spectrum hand, a method for operating a user equipment (UE) served by the RAN, the method comprising:
receiving from the RAN a first uplink scheduling grant;
determining, based on the first uplink scheduling grant, that an uplink communications grant has not been received for a first uplink subframe of an uplink burst, wherein the uplink burst comprises an ordered plurality of uplink subframes; determining that the first uplink scheduling grant schedules communication in a second uplink subframe of the uplink burst, and
performing, in response to the determination, a mitigating action to avoid a communication error with the RAN.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first uplink subframe is scheduled soonest in time after a downlink pilot time signal (DwPTS) of a special subframe that precedes the uplink burst.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first uplink scheduling grant includes an indication of a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH) scheduling configuration.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the PUSCH scheduling configuration includes information indicative of at least one of: a frequency resource, a modulation and coding scheme (MCS), or a demodulation reference signal (DMRS).
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the mitigating action comprises:
determining not to transmit a PUSCH message in the second uplink subframe.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the mitigating action comprises:
transmitting a PUSCH message in the first uplink subframe using the PUSCH scheduling configuration.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising:
applying the PI St 1 1 scheduling configuration to PUSCH messages for transmission in the plurality of subframes of the uplink burst.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the mitigating action comprises:
transmitting a reservation signal in the first uplink subframe.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the reservation signal indicates that the UE will transmit a PUSCH message in an uplink subframe after the first uplink subframe.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the RAN uses a time-division duplex (TDD) frame structure.
11. In a communication system comprising a radio access network (RAN) operating in an unlicensed radio frequency spectrum band, a method for operating a user equipment (UE) served by the RAN, the method comprising:
receiving an uplink scheduling grant scheduling communication in an uplink subframe of an uplink burst, wherein the uplink burst comprises a plurality of ordered uplink subframes;
determining that there is no data for transmission on a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH);
determining whether the uplink subframe is a first uplink subframe of the uplink burst; and
transmitting, in response to determining that the uplink subframe is the first uplink subframe, hybrid automatic repeat request (HARQ) feedback in the uplink subframe.
12. The method of claim 1 1, wherein determining that the uplink subframe is the first uplink subframe occurs in a first iteration, and wherein in a second iteration the method further comprises:
determining that the uplink subframe is not the first uplink subframe of the uplink burst; and responsively ignoring the uplink scheduling grant.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the HARQ feedback includes a bitmap.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the HARQ feedback is transmitted in uplink control information (UCI) over the PUSCH.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the PUSCH message does not include uplink data, and wherein the method further comprises padding the PUSCH with zeros.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the HARQ feedback is downlink HARQ feedback.
17. The method of claim 1 1, further comprising:
receiving an indicator indicating whether to use spatial bundling for the HARQ feedback.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the indicator is included in a tddA ckNackFeedhackMode fi el d .
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the idd-AckNackFeedbackMode field is included in a PUSCH-Config information element (IE).
20. In a communication system comprising a radio access network (RAN) operating in an unlicensed radio frequency spectrum band, a method for operating a user equipment (UE) served by the RAN, the method comprising:
receiving an uplink scheduling grant scheduling communication in an uplink subframe of an uplink burst, wherein the uplink burst comprises a plurality of ordered uplink subframes;
determining whether a downlink physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) transmission was received;
buffering, in response to the determination that a PDSCH transmission was received, HARQ feedback that corresponds to the PDSCH transmission; and transmitting the buffered HARQ feedback in the uplink subframe.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the HARQ-ACK feedback is reserved for transmission within a first available UL subframe after a DwPTS of special subframe preceding the uplink burst.
22. The method of claim 20, wherein the HARQ-ACK feedback includes a bitmap.
23. In a communication system comprising a radio access network (RAN) operating in an unlicensed radio frequency spectrum band, the RAN configured to serve a plurality of LIEs, a method comprising:
transmitting, to a first UE of the plurality, an uplink scheduling grant for communications in a first uplink subframe of an uplink burst, the uplink scheduling grant including a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH) scheduling configuration,
receiving, from the UE, a PUSCH message in a second uplink subframe of the uplink burst according to the PUSCH scheduling configuration
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the PUSCH message is a first PUSCH message, and wherein the method further comprises:
receiving, from the UE, a second PUSCH message in the first uplink subframe according to the PUSCH scheduling configuration.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the PUSCH scheduling configuration is to be applied by the UE for all PUSCH transmissions in the uplink burst.
26. In a communication system comprising a radio access network (RAN) operating in an unlicensed radio frequency spectrum band and serving a user equipment (UE), a non-transitory computer-readable storage device having stored thereon instructions, which, when executed by a data processing apparatus, cause the data processing apparatus to perform operations comprising:
receiving from the RAN a first uplink scheduling grant; determining, based on the first uplink scheduling grant, that an uplink communications grant has not been received for a first uplink subframe of an uplink burst, wherein the uplink burst comprises an ordered plurality of uplink subframes; determining that the first uplink scheduling grant schedules communication in a second uplink subframe of the uplink burst, and
performing, in response to the determination, a mitigating action to avoid a communication error with the RAN.
27. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 26, wherein the first uplink subframe is scheduled soonest in time after a downlink pilot time signal (DwPTS) of a special subframe that precedes the uplink burst.
28. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 26, wherein the first uplink scheduling grant includes an indication of a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH) scheduling configuration.
29. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 28, wherein the PUSCH scheduling configuration includes information indicative of at least one of: a frequency resource, a modulation and coding scheme (MCS), or a demodulation reference signal (DMRS).
30. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 28, wherein the mitigating action comprises:
determining not to transmit a PUSCH message in the second uplink subframe.
31. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 28, wherein the mitigating action comprises:
transmitting a PUSCH message in the first uplink subframe using the PUSCH sch ed uling confi gurati on .
32. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 31, the operations further comprising: applying the PUSCH scheduling configuration to PUSCH messages for transmission in the plurality of subframes of the uplink burst.
33. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 26, wherein the mitigating action comprises:
transmitting a reservation signal in the first uplink subframe.
34. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 33, wherein the reservation signal indicates that the UE will transmit a PUSCH message in an uplink subframe after the first uplink subframe.
35. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 26, wherein the RAN uses a time-division duplex (TDD) frame structure.
36. In a communication system comprising a radio access network (RAN) operating in an unlicensed radio frequency spectrum band and serving a user equipment (UE), a non-transitory computer-readable storage device having stored thereon instructions, which, when executed by a data processing apparatus, cause the data processing apparatus to perform operations comprising:
receiving an uplink scheduling grant scheduling communication in an uplink subframe of an uplink burst, wherein the uplink burst comprises a plurality of ordered uplink subframes;
determining that there is no data for transmission on a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH);
determining whether the uplink subframe is a fi rst uplink subframe of the uplink burst; and
transmitting, in response to determining that the uplink subframe is the first uplink subframe, hybrid automatic repeat request (HARQ) feedback in the uplink subframe.
37. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 36, wherein determining that the uplink subframe is the first uplink subframe occurs in a first iteration of the operations, and wherein in a second iteration of the operations further comprises:
determining that the uplink subframe is not the first uplink subframe of the uplink burst; and
responsively ignoring the uplink scheduling grant.
38. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 36, wherein the HARQ feedback includes a bitmap.
39. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 36, wherein the HARQ feedback is transmitted in uplink control information (UCI) over the PUSCH.
40. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 36, wherein the PUSCH message does not include uplink data, and wherein the operations further comprise padding the PUSCH with zeros.
41. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 36, wherein the HARQ feedback is downlink HARQ feedback.
42. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 36, the operations further comprising:
receiving an indicator indicating whether to use spatial bundling for the HARQ feedback.
43. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 42, wherein the indicator is included in a Idd-AckNackFeedbackMode field.
44. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 43, wherein the tdd-AckNackF eedbackMode field is included in a PUSCH-Config information element (IE).
45. In a communication system comprising a radio access network (RAN) operating in an unlicensed radio frequency spectrum band and serving a user equipment (UE), a non-transitory computer-readable storage device having stored thereon instructions, which, when executed by a data processing apparatus, cause the data processing apparatus to perform operations comprising:
receiving an uplink scheduling grant scheduling communication in an uplink subframe of an uplink burst, wherein the uplink burst comprises a plurality of ordered uplink subframes;
determining whether a downlink physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) transmission was received;
buffering, in response to the determination that a PDSCH transmission was received, HARQ feedback that corresponds to the PDSCH transmission; and
transmitting the buffered HARQ feedback in the uplink subframe.
46. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 45, wherein the HARQ-ACK feedback is reserved for transmission within a first available UL subframe after a DwPTS of special subframe preceding the uplink burst.
47. In a communication system comprising a radio access network (RAN) operating in an unlicensed radio frequency spectrum band, the RAN configured to serve a plurality of UEs, a non-transitory computer-readable storage device having stored thereon instructions, which, when executed by a data processing apparatus, cause the data processing apparatus to perform operations comprising:
transmitting, to a first UE of the plurality, an uplink scheduling grant for communications in a first uplink subframe of an uplink burst, the uplink scheduling grant including a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH) scheduling configuration;
receiving, from the UE, a PUSCH message in a second uplink subframe of the uplink burst according to the PUSCH scheduling configuration.
48. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 47, wherein the PUSCH message is a first PUSCH message, and wherein the operations further comprise:
receiving, from the UE, a second PUSCH message in the first uplink subframe according to the PUSCH scheduling configuration.
49. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 47, wherein the PUSCH scheduling configuration is to be applied by the UE for all PUSCH transmissions in the uplink burst.
50. A system comprising:
one or more processors and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more processors, to cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
receiving, from a radio access network (RAN) operating in an unlicensed radio frequency spectrum band, a first uplink scheduling grant;
determining, based on the first uplink scheduling grant, that an uplink communications grant has not been received for a first uplink subframe of an uplink burst, wherein the uplink burst comprises an ordered plurality of uplink subframes;
determining that the first uplink scheduling grant schedules communication in a second uplink subframe of the uplink burst; and
performing, in response to the determination, a mitigating action to avoid a communication error with the RAN.
51. The system of claim 50, wherein the first uplink subframe is scheduled soonest in time after a downlink pilot time signal (DwPTS) of a special subframe that precedes the uplink burst.
52. The system of claim 50, wherein the first uplink scheduling grant includes an indication of a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH) scheduling configuration.
53. The system of claim 52, wherein the PUSCH scheduling configuration includes information indicative of at least one of: a frequency resource, a modulation and coding scheme (MCS), or a demodulation reference signal (DMRS).
54. The system of claim 52, wherein the mitigating action comprises:
determining not to transmit a PUSCH message in the second uplink subframe.
55. The system of claim 52, wherein the mitigating action comprises:
transmitting a PUSCH message in the first uplink subframe using the PUSCH scheduling configuration.
56. The system of claim 55, the operations further comprising:
applying the PUSCH scheduling configuration to PUSCH messages for transmission in the plurality of subframes of the uplink burst.
57. The system of claim 50, wherein the mitigating action comprises:
transmitting a reservation signal in the first uplink subframe.
58. The system of claim 57, wherein the reservation signal indicates that the UE wi 11 transmit a PUSCH message in an uplink subframe after the first uplink subframe.
59. The system of claim 50, wherein the RAN uses a time-division duplex (TDD) frame structure.
60. A system comprising:
one or more processors and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more processors, to cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
receiving, from a radio access network (RAN) operating in an unlicensed radio frequency spectrum band, an uplink scheduling grant scheduling communication in an uplink subframe of an uplink burst, wherein the uplink burst comprises a plurality of ordered uplink subframes;
determining that there is no data for transmission on a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH);
determining whether the uplink subframe is a first uplink subframe of the uplink burst, and
transmitting, in response to determining that the uplink subframe is the first uplink subframe, hybrid automatic repeat request (HARQ) feedback in the uplink subframe.
61. The system of claim 60, wherein determining that the uplink subframe is the first uplink subframe occurs in a first iteration of the operations, and wherein in a second iteration of the operations further comprises:
determining that the uplink subframe is not the first uplink subframe of the uplink burst; and
responsively ignoring the uplink scheduling grant.
62. The system of claim 60, wherein the HARQ feedback includes a bitmap.
63. The system of claim 60, wherein the HARQ feedback is transmitted in uplink control information (UCI) over the PUSCH.
64. The system of claim 60, wherein the PUSCH message does not include uplink data, and wherein the operations further comprise padding the PUSCH with zeros
65. The system of claim 60, wherein the HARQ feedback is downlink HARQ feedback.
66. The system of claim 60, the operations further comprising:
receiving an indicator indicating whether to use spatial bundling for the HARQ feedback.
67. The system of claim 62, wherein the indicator is included in a tddA ckNackFeedbackMode fi el d .
68. The system of claim 63, wherein the tdd-AckNackFeedbackMode field is included in a PUSCH-Config information element (IE).
69. A system comprising:
one or more processors and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more processors, to cause the one or more processors to perforin operations comprising: receiving, from a radio access network (RAN) operating in an unlicensed radio frequency spectrum band, an uplink scheduling grant scheduling communication in an uplink subframe of an uplink burst, wherein the uplink burst comprises a plurality of ordered uplink subframes;
determining whether a downlink physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) transmission was received;
buffering, in response to the determination that a PDSCH transmission tvas received, HARQ feedback that corresponds to the PDSCH transmission; and transmitting the buffered HARQ feedback in the uplink subframe
70. The system of claim 69, wherein the HARQ-ACK feedback is reserved for transmission within a first available UL subframe after a DwPTS of special subframe preceding the uplink burst.
71. A communication system comprising:
a radio access network (RAN) operating in an unlicensed radio frequency spectrum band, the RAN configured to serve a plurality of UEs; and
one or more processors and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more processors, to cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
transmitting, to a first LIE of the plurality, an uplink scheduling grant for communications in a first uplink subframe of an uplink burst, the uplink scheduling grant including a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH) scheduling configuration;
receiving, from the UE, a PUSCH message in a second uplink subframe of the uplink burst according to the PUSCH scheduling configuration.
72. The system of claim 71, wherein the PUSCH message is a first PUSCH message, and wherein the operations further comprise:
receiving, from the UE, a second PUSCH message in the first uplink subframe according to the PUSCH scheduling configuration.
73. The system of claim 71 , wherein the PUSCH scheduling configuration is to be applied by the UE for all PUSCH transmissions in the uplink burst.
</claims>
</document>
