<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/02,G06Q10/06,G06Q40/08,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DATAROBOT
</assignee>

<inventors>
ACHIN, JEREMY
CONORT, XAVIER
MAYER, ZACHARY
SCHIERZ, AMANDA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69160432
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS FOR DETECTING AND INTERPRETING DATA ANOMALIES, AND RELATED SYSTEMS AND DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
An anomaly detection method comprising: obtaining a data set comprising plurality of data samples, each of the plurality of data samples associated with respective values for a set of features;identifying a respective data type of each of the features; automatically generating an anomaly detection blueprint based on the respective data types of one or more of the features, the anomaly detection blueprint comprising a machine-executable module encoding an anomaly detection procedure, the anomaly detection procedure including a plurality of tasks, wherein one or more of the tasks are selected based on a size of the data set and/or the respective data types of the one or more features; and executing the machine-executable module, thereby performing the anomaly detection procedure, wherein performing the anomaly detection procedure includes identifying a subset of the plurality of data samples as a set of anomalous data samples.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. An anomaly detection method comprising:
obtaining a data set comprising plurality of data samples, each of the plurality of data samples associated with respective values for a set of features; identifying a respective data type of each of the features;
automatically generating an anomaly detection blueprint based on the respective data types of one or more of the features, the anomaly detection blueprint comprising a machine-executable module encoding an anomaly detection procedure, the anomaly detection procedure including a plurality of tasks, wherein one or more of the tasks are selected based on a size of the data set and/or the respective data types of the one or more features; and executing the machine-executable module, thereby performing the anomaly detection procedure, wherein performing the anomaly detection procedure includes identifying a subset of the plurality of data samples as a set of anomalous data samples.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more features include a particular feature, wherein the identified data type of the particular feature is a numerical data type, and wherein the anomaly detection procedure corresponding to the anomaly detection blueprint does not include a task of performing normalization, standardization, or ridit transformation of the respective values of the plurality of data samples for the particular feature having the numerical data type.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the one or more features include a particular feature, the data type of the particular feature being a numerical data type,
the plurality of data samples include one or more first data samples and one or more second data samples, wherein the respective value of the particular feature for each of the first data samples is missing and wherein the respective value of the particular feature for each of the second data samples is non-missing, and the tasks of the anomaly detection procedure corresponding to the anomaly detection blueprint include a missing value imputation task comprising replacing the respective missing value of the particular feature of each of the first data samples with a median of the non-missing values of the particular feature for the second data samples.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein: the one or more features include a particular feature,
the plurality of data samples includes one or more data samples wherein the respective value for the particular feature is missing, and
the tasks of the anomaly detection procedure corresponding to the anomaly detection blueprint include a feature engineering task comprising:
adding a new feature to the set of features and determining the respective value of the new feature for each of the plurality of data samples, the respective value of the new feature for each of the plurality of data samples indicating whether the respective data sample is missing a value for the particular feature.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein:
each of the plurality of data samples is further associated with a respective value of a label;
the tasks of the anomaly detection procedure corresponding to the anomaly detection blueprint further include:
obtaining a respective anomaly score for each of the plurality of data samples, the respective anomaly score for each data sample indicating a predicted extent to which the data sample is anomalous; and
identifying, based on the anomaly scores, the set of anomalous data samples from the plurality of data samples; and
the method further includes:
determining a correlation between the respective anomaly score or the respective anomaly classification and the respective value of the label for each of the plurality of data samples;
responsive to the correlation being less than a threshold correlation, removing the set of anomalous data samples from the plurality of data samples; and
otherwise, responsive to the correlation being at least the threshold correlation, retaining the set of anomalous data samples in the plurality of data samples.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more features include a particular feature, the data type of the particular feature being a categorical data type, and wherein the tasks of the anomaly detection procedure corresponding to the anomaly detection blueprint include a feature engineering task comprising:
for each of the plurality of data samples, replacing the respective value of the particular feature having the categorical data type with a respective frequency of occurrence of the respective value of the particular feature in the plurality of data samples.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more features include one or more particular features, the data type of the one or more particular features being a free text data type, and wherein the tasks of the anomaly detection procedure corresponding to the anomaly detection blueprint include a feature engineering task comprising:
identifying a plurality of terms that occur most frequently within a combined free text corpus comprising the values for the one or more particular features having the free text data type for the plurality of data samples; and
generating a sample-term matrix, wherein each row of the sample-term matrix corresponds to a respective data sample in the plurality of data samples, wherein each column of the sample-term matrix corresponds to a respective term in the plurality of terms that occur most frequently, and wherein each element of the sample-term matrix indicates whether the term corresponding to the column of the element occurs in the data sample corresponding to the row of the element, within the values of the one or more particular features having the free text data type.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the feature engineering task further comprises:
replacing the one or more particular features in the set of features with an engineered feature, and
for each of the plurality of data samples, setting a respective value of the engineered feature to the row of the sample-term matrix corresponding to the respective data sample.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein a number of unique terms in the combined free text corpus is greater than 5,000, wherein a number of unique terms in the plurality of terms that occur most frequently within the combined free text corpus is 5,000, and wherein a number of columns of the sample-term matrix is 5,000.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the feature engineering task further comprises:
generating a compact matrix by performing Singular-Value Decomposition (SVD) on the sample-term matrix, wherein a quantity of columns in the compact matrix is less than a quantity of columns in the sample-term matrix, and wherein each row of the compact matrix corresponds to a respective data sample in the plurality of data samples;
replacing the one or more particular features in the set of features with an engineered feature; and for each of the plurality of data samples, setting a respective value of the engineered feature to the row of the compact matrix corresponding to the respective data sample.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more features include one or more particular features, the data type of each of the one or more particular features being a free text data type, and wherein the tasks of the anomaly detection procedure corresponding to the anomaly detection blueprint include a feature engineering task comprising:
for each of the one or more particular features having the free text data type: identifying a plurality of terms that occur most frequently within a combined free text corpus comprising the values for the respective particular feature for the plurality of data samples; and generating a sample-term matrix, wherein each row of the sample-term matrix corresponds to a respective data sample in the plurality of data samples, wherein each column of the sample-term matrix corresponds to a respective term in the plurality of terms that occur most frequently, and wherein each element of the sample-term matrix indicates whether the term corresponding to the column of the element occurs in the data sample corresponding to the row of the element, within the values of the respective particular feature.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the feature engineering task further comprises:
for each sample-term matrix corresponding to each of the one or more particular features having the free text data type:
generating a compact matrix by performing Singular-Value
Decomposition (SVD) on the sample-term matrix, wherein a quantity of columns in the compact matrix is less than a quantity of columns in the sample-term matrix, and wherein each row of the compact matrix corresponds to a respective data sample in the plurality of data samples; replacing the respective particular feature in the set of features with a respective engineered feature; and
for each of the plurality of data samples, setting a respective value of the respective engineered feature to the row of the compact matrix corresponding to the respective data sample.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying a size of the data set, wherein the generating of the anomaly detection blueprint is further based on the size of the data set, wherein the set of anomalous data samples is identified using an anomaly detection process, and wherein the anomaly detection process is selected from a group of anomaly selection processes based, at least in part, on a number of data samples in the data set and/or on a storage size of the data set.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the number of data samples in the data set is less than a first sample number threshold, wherein the storage size of the data set is less than a storage size threshold, and wherein the group of anomaly selection processes consists of an isolation forest process, a double median absolute deviance (MAD) process, a one class support vector machine (SVM) process, a local outlier factor (LOF) process, and a Mahalanobis distance process.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the number of data samples in the data set is greater than a first sample number threshold and less than a second sample number threshold, wherein the storage size of the data set is less than a storage size threshold, and wherein the group of anomaly selection processes consists of an isolation forest process, a double median absolute deviance (MAD) process, and a Mahalanobis distance process.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein (1) the number of data samples in the data set is
greater than a first sample number threshold and a second sample number threshold, or (2) the storage size of the data set is greater than a storage size threshold, and wherein the group of anomaly selection processes consists of a double median absolute deviance (MAD) process and a Mahalanobis distance process.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the set of anomalous data samples comprises:
determining, by an unsupervised anomaly detection process, for each of the plurality of data samples, a respective anomaly score indicating an extent to which the respective data sample is anomalous;
adding the anomaly scores to the data set as respective values of a label of the plurality of data samples, thereby generating a labeled data set; and
applying a supervised anomaly detection model to the labeled data set to identify the set of anomalous data samples.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the subset of the plurality of data samples as the set of anomalous data samples comprises:
determining, by an unsupervised anomaly detection process, for each of the plurality of data samples, a respective anomaly score indicating an extent to which the respective data sample is anomalous, and
wherein the set of anomalous data samples comprises a fraction of the plurality of data samples having greatest anomaly scores.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the tasks of the anomaly detection procedure corresponding to the anomaly detection blueprint further include:
assigning a respective value of a label to each of the plurality of data samples based on the identified set of anomalous data samples, the respective value of the label assigned to each data sample indicating whether the respective data sample is anomalous; and
using the labeled data samples as training data to train a supervised anomaly detection model to infer whether data samples are anomalous based on the values of the features associated with the data samples.
20. An anomaly detection method comprising:
obtaining a data set comprising a plurality of data samples, each of the plurality of data samples associated with respective values for a set of features, the set of features comprising at least a first feature having a free text data type and a second feature having a non-text data type; and
identifying a subset of the plurality of data samples as a set of anomalous data samples based, at least in part, on the respective values for the first and second features of each of the plurality of data samples.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the method further comprises:
identifying a plurality of terms that occur most frequently within a combined free text corpus comprising the values for the at least first feature having the free text data type for the plurality of data samples; and
generating a sample-term matrix, wherein each row of the sample-term matrix corresponds to a respective data sample in the plurality of data samples, wherein each column of the sample-term matrix corresponds to a respective term in the plurality of terms that occur most frequently, and wherein each element of the sample-term matrix indicates whether the term corresponding to the column of the element occurs in the data sample corresponding to the row of the element, within the values of the at least first feature having the free text data type.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the method further comprises:
replacing the at least first feature in the set of features with an engineered feature, and
for each of the plurality of data samples, setting a respective value of the engineered feature to the row of the sample-term matrix corresponding to the respective data sample.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein a number of unique terms in the combined free text corpus is greater than 5,000, wherein a number of unique terms in the plurality of terms that occur most frequently within the combined free text corpus is 5,000, and wherein a number of columns of the sample-term matrix is 5,000.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein the method further comprises:
generating a compact matrix by performing Singular-Value Decomposition (SVD) on the sample-term matrix, wherein a quantity of columns in the compact matrix is less than a quantity of columns in the sample-term matrix, and wherein each row of the compact matrix corresponds to a respective data sample in the plurality of data samples;
replacing the at least first feature with an engineered feature; and
for each of the plurality of data samples, setting a respective value of the engineered feature to the row of the compact matrix corresponding to the respective data sample.
25. The method of claim 20, wherein the method further comprises:
for the at least first feature having the free text data type:
identifying a plurality of terms that occur most frequently within a combined free text corpus comprising the values for the first feature for the plurality of data samples; and
generating a sample-term matrix, wherein each row of the sample-term matrix corresponds to a respective data sample in the plurality of data samples, wherein each column of the sample-term matrix corresponds to a respective term in the plurality of terms that occur most frequently, and wherein each element of the sample-term matrix indicates whether the term corresponding to the column of the element occurs in the data sample corresponding to the row of the element, within the values of the first feature.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the method further comprises:
for each sample-term matrix corresponding to each feature of the at least first feature having the free text data type:
generating a compact matrix by performing Singular-Value
Decomposition (SVD) on the sample-term matrix, wherein a quantity of columns in the compact matrix is less than a quantity of columns in the sample-term matrix, and wherein each row of the compact matrix corresponds to a respective data sample in the plurality of data samples; replacing the feature with an engineered feature; and
for each of the plurality of data samples, setting a respective value of the engineered feature to the row of the compact matrix corresponding to the respective data sample.
27. The method of claim 20, wherein identifying a subset of the plurality of data samples as a set of anomalous data samples comprises:
determining, by an unsupervised anomaly detection process, for each of the plurality of data samples, a respective anomaly score indicating an extent to which the respective data sample is anomalous;
adding the anomaly scores to the data set as respective values of a label of the plurality of data samples, thereby generating a labeled data set; and applying a supervised anomaly detection model to the labeled data set to identify the set of anomalous data samples.
28. The method of claim 20, wherein identifying a subset of the plurality of data samples as a set of anomalous data samples comprises:
determining, by an unsupervised anomaly detection process, for each of the plurality of data samples, a respective anomaly score indicating an extent to which the respective data sample is anomalous, and
wherein the set of anomalous data samples comprises a fraction of the plurality of data samples having greatest anomaly scores.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the method further comprises:
assigning a respective value of a label to each of the plurality of data samples based on the identified set of anomalous data samples, the respective value of the label assigned to each data sample indicating whether the respective data sample is anomalous; and
using the labeled data samples as training data to train a supervised anomaly detection model to infer whether data samples are anomalous based on the values of the features associated with the data samples.
30. An anomaly detection method comprising:
obtaining, from multiple different sources, respective anomaly scores for a data sample, each of the anomaly scores indicating a respective extent to which the data sample is predicted to be anomalous by the respective source; identifying a level of anomaly detection rigor for identification of
anomalousness of the data sample, the level of anomaly detection rigor comprising maximum rigor or minimum rigor; responsive to the identified level of anomaly detection rigor being minimum rigor:
responsive to at least one of the anomaly scores being greater than a first threshold anomaly score, identifying the data sample as an anomalous data sample; and
otherwise, responsive to none of the anomaly scores being greater than the first threshold anomaly score, identifying the data sample as a nonanomalous data sample; and
otherwise, responsive to the identified level of anomaly detection rigor being maximum rigor:
responsive to at least one of the anomaly scores being less than a second threshold anomaly score, identifying the data sample as a non-anomalous data sample; and
otherwise, responsive to all of the anomaly scores being greater than the second threshold anomaly score, identifying the data sample as an anomalous data sample.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein identifying the level of anomaly detection rigor
comprises receiving an indication of the level of anomaly detection rigor from a user.
32. The method of claim 30, wherein each of the multiple different sources is a respective anomaly detection process or anomaly detection model.
33. An anomaly analysis method comprising:
obtaining respective anomaly scores for each of a plurality of data samples, each of the plurality of data samples associated with respective values for a set of features, the respective anomaly score for each data sample indicating an extent to which the data sample is anomalous;
identifying, based on the anomaly scores, a set of anomalous data samples from the plurality of data samples;
determining a sum of the anomaly scores for the set of anomalous data samples, wherein the sum is a base sum;
for each feature in the set of features:
adjusting the respective value of the feature for each of the anomalous data samples to neutralize the feature's impact on assessment of the data samples' anomalousness, thereby generating updated anomalous data samples; determining a respective anomaly score for each of the updated anomalous data samples;
determining a sum of the anomaly scores for the updated anomalous data samples, wherein the sum is a feature sum; and
determining a difference between the base sum and the feature sum, the difference representing a contribution of the values of the feature to the identification of the set of data samples as anomalous; and
identifying, based on the determined differences for the features, one or more features that contribute most to the identification of the set of data samples as anomalous.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein obtaining respective anomaly scores for each of a plurality of data samples comprises receiving the respective anomaly scores for each of the plurality of data samples from an anomaly detection model, and wherein determining an anomaly score for each of the updated data samples comprises determining the anomaly score for each of the updated data samples by the anomaly detection model.
35. The method of claim 33, wherein the set of anomalous data samples comprises a
fraction of the plurality of data samples having the greatest anomaly scores, the fraction of the plurality of data samples comprising an expected outlier fraction.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein the expected outlier fraction comprises 10%.
37. The method of claim 33, wherein adjusting the respective value of the feature for each of the anomalous data samples to neutralize the feature's impact on assessment of the data samples' anomalousness comprises replacing the respective value of the feature for each of the anomalous data samples with a constant value,
and wherein the method further comprises determining the constant value based on the values of the feature for the anomalous data samples.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein determining the constant value comprises:
determining a data type of the feature;
responsive to determining that the data type of the feature is numerical, replacing the respective value of the feature for each of the anomalous data samples with a median of the values of the feature for the anomalous data samples; and
otherwise, responsive to determining that the data type of the feature is categorical or free text, replacing the value of the respective feature for each of the anomalous data samples with the value of the feature occurring at the highest frequency in the anomalous data samples.
39. The method of claim 33, further comprising, for each feature in the set of features, determining a normalized difference between the base sum and the respective feature sum,
wherein the features that contribute most to the identification of the data samples as anomalous are identified based on the normalized differences for the features.
40. The method of claim 33, further comprising ranking the features in the set of features based on the differences, a higher ranking indicating a greater contribution of the feature to the identification of the set of data samples as anomalous.
41. The method of claim 33, wherein the plurality of data samples is a first plurality of data samples associated with a first time point, wherein the set of anomalous data samples is a first set of anomalous data samples, wherein the anomaly scores for the first plurality of data samples are first anomaly scores, a second plurality of data samples is associated with a second time point after the first time point, and wherein the method further comprises:
obtaining a respective second anomaly score for each of the second plurality of data samples, each of the second plurality of data samples associated with respective values for the set of features;
identifying, based on the second anomaly scores, a second set of anomalous data samples from the second plurality of data samples;
determining a first quantity of data samples of the first set of anomalous data samples having respective first anomaly scores greater than a threshold anomaly score;
determining a second quantity of data samples of the second set of anomalous data samples having respective second anomaly scores greater than the threshold anomaly score;
determining a quantity difference between the first and second quantities of data samples; and
responsive to an absolute value of the quantity difference being greater than a threshold difference, performing one or more actions associated with updating an anomaly detection model from which the first and second anomaly scores were obtained.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein the one or more actions associated with updating the anomaly detection model include providing a message to a user of the anomaly detection model, the message recommending that the anomaly detection model be updated.
43. The method of claim 41, wherein the one or more actions associated with updating the anomaly detection model include generating a new anomaly detection model based on the second plurality of data samples associated with the second time point.
44. The method of claim 41, wherein the first plurality of data samples and the second plurality of data samples are associated with the same entity.
45. The method of claim 41, wherein the first plurality of data samples and the second plurality of data samples are associated with different entities.
46. The method of claim 33, further comprising determining business rules for identifying future anomalous data samples based on the features identified as contributing most to the identification of the data samples as anomalous.
47. A feature engineering method for a supervised machine learning process, the method comprising:
determining, by an unsupervised anomaly detection model, respective anomaly scores for each of a plurality of data samples, each of the plurality of data samples associated with respective values for a set of features, the respective anomaly score for each data sample indicating a predicted extent to which the data sample is anomalous;
adding a new feature to the set of features, wherein the respective value of the new feature for each data sample is based on the respective anomaly score of each data sample, thereby generating an updated plurality of data samples; and
(1) training a first machine learning model to predict a respective value of a label for each of another updated plurality of data samples based on respective values of the set of features for each of the other updated plurality of data samples, wherein each of the updated plurality of data samples is further associated with a respective value for the label, and wherein training the first machine learning model comprise training the first machine learning model using a supervised machine learning process using the updated plurality of data samples as training data and/or validation data, or
(2) using a second machine learning model to predict a respective value of the label for each of the plurality of updated data samples.
48. A data pre-processing method for a supervised machine learning process, the method compnsmg: obtaining respective anomaly scores for each of a plurality of training data samples for training a supervised machine learning model, each of the plurality of training data samples associated with respective values for a set of features and with a respective value of a label, the respective anomaly score for each training data sample indicating a predicted extent to which the data sample is anomalous;
identifying, based on the anomaly scores, a set of anomalous training data samples from the plurality of training data samples;
determining a correlation between the respective anomaly score or the respective anomaly classification and the respective value of the label for each of the plurality of training data samples;
responsive to the correlation being less than a threshold correlation, removing the set of anomalous training data samples from the plurality of training data samples for training the supervised machine learning model; and
otherwise, responsive to the correlation being at least the threshold correlation, retaining the set of anomalous training data samples in the plurality of training data samples for training the supervised machine learning model.
49. The method of claim 48, wherein obtaining respective anomaly scores for each of a plurality of training data samples comprises receiving the respective anomaly scores for each of the plurality of training data samples from an anomaly detection model.
50. The method of claim 49, wherein the anomaly detection model is an unsupervised machine learning model.
51. The method of claim 48, wherein the set of anomalous training data samples comprises a fraction of the plurality of training data samples having the greatest anomaly scores, the fraction of the plurality of training data samples comprising an expected outlier fraction.
52. The method of claim 51, wherein the expected outlier fraction comprises 10%.
53. The method of claim 48, wherein responsive to the correlation being less than a
threshold correlation, the method further comprises:
determining a sum of the anomaly scores for the set of anomalous training data samples, wherein the sum is a base sum;
for each feature in the set of features:
adjusting the respective value of the feature for each of the anomalous training data samples to neutralize the feature's impact on assessment of the training data samples' anomalousness, thereby generating updated anomalous training data samples;
determining a respective anomaly score for each of the updated anomalous training data samples;
determining a sum of the anomaly scores for the updated anomalous training data samples, wherein the sum is a feature sum; and
determining a difference between the base sum and the feature sum, the difference representing a contribution of the values of the feature to the identification of the set of training data samples as anomalous; and identifying, based on the determined differences for the features, one or more features that contributed most to the identification of the set of training data samples as anomalous.
54. The method of claim 53, further comprising providing a message to a user, the message indicating the one or more features that contributed most to the identification of the set of training data samples as anomalous.
55. The method of claim 53, wherein determining an anomaly score for each of the updated anomalous training data samples comprises determining the anomaly score for each of the updated anomalous training data samples by an anomaly detection model that was used to determine the respective anomaly scores for each of the plurality of training data samples.
56. The method of claim 53, wherein adjusting the respective value of the feature for each of the anomalous training data samples to neutralize the feature's impact on assessment of the training data samples' anomalousness comprises replacing the respective value of the feature for each of the anomalous training data samples with a constant value, and wherein the method further comprises determining the constant value based on the values of the feature for the anomalous training data samples.
57. The method of claim 56, wherein determining the constant value comprises:
determining a data type of the feature;
responsive to determining that the data type of the feature is numerical, replacing the respective value of the feature for each of the anomalous training data samples with a median of the values of the feature for the anomalous training data samples; and
otherwise, responsive to determining that the data type of the feature is categorical or free text, replacing the value of the respective feature for each of the anomalous training data samples with the value of the feature occurring at the highest frequency in the anomalous training data samples.
58. The method of claim 53, further comprising, for each feature in the set of features, determining a normalized difference between the base sum and the respective feature sum, and
wherein the features that contributed most to the identification of the training data samples as anomalous are identified based on the normalized differences for the features.
59. The method of claim 53, further comprising ranking the features in the set of features based on the differences, a higher ranking indicating a greater contribution of the feature to the identification of the set of training data samples as anomalous.
</claims>
</document>
