<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16B20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMGEN
</assignee>

<inventors>
LE, KIM
STEVENS, JENNITTE
XIE, Yucen
BASKERVILLE-BRIDGES, Aaron
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73028663
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA-DRIVEN PREDICTIVE MODELING FOR CELL LINE SELECTION IN BIOPHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTION
</title>

<abstract>
A method for facilitating selection of cell lines to advance to a next stage of cell line screening includes receiving first attribute values for the candidate cell lines measured using an opto-electronic cell line generation and analysis system, and acquiring second attribute values that include one or more attribute values measured at a cell pool screening stage of the candidate cell lines. The method also includes determining a ranking of the candidate cell lines according to a product quality attribute associated with hypothetical small-scale screening cultures. Determining the ranking includes predicting, for each of the candidate cell lines, a value of the product quality attribute by analyzing the first and second plurality of attribute values using a machine learning based regression estimator, and comparing the predicted values. The method also includes causing an indication of the ranking to be presented to a user via a user interface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for facilitating selection of a cell line, from among a plurality of candidate cell lines that produce recombinant proteins, the method comprising:
measuring, using an opto-electronic cell line generation and analysis system, a first plurality of attribute values for the plurality of candidate cell lines;
acquiring, by one or more processors, a second plurality of attribute values for the plurality of candidate cell lines, wherein the second plurality of attribute values includes one or more attribute values measured at a cell pool screening stage of the plurality of candidate cell lines;
determining, by one or more processors, a ranking of the plurality of candidate cell lines according to a product quality attribute associated with hypothetical small-scale screening cultures for the plurality of candidate cell lines, wherein determining the ranking includes (i) predicting, for each of the plurality of candidate cell lines, a value of the product quality attribute by analyzing the first plurality of attribute values and the second plurality of attribute values using a machine learning based regression estimator, and (ii) comparing the predicted values; and
causing an indication of the ranking to be presented to a user via a user interface.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein measuring the first plurality of attribute values using the opto-electronic cell line generation and analysis system includes performing a plurality of optical and assay measurements for the plurality of candidate cell lines.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein performing the plurality of optical and assay measurements for the plurality of candidate cell lines includes measuring at least cell counts and cell productivity scores at a plurality of physically isolated pens in the opto-electronic cell line generation and analysis system, and wherein the method further comprises:
generating, using the opto-electronic cell line generation and analysis system, cells of the plurality of candidate cell lines, at least by moving individual cells into different pens of the plurality of physically isolated pens with one or more photoconductors activated by light patterns, and containing the individual cells within their respective pens throughout a cell line generation and analysis process.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein measuring the first plurality of attribute values includes measuring:
a first attribute value corresponding to a first measurement of an attribute; and
a second attribute value corresponding to a second measurement of the attribute, the first measurement and the second measurement occurring on different days of the cell line generation and analysis process. 5. The method of claim 1 , wherein acquiring the second plurality of attribute values includes receiving one or more of:
a measured cell pool titer;
a measured cell pool viable cell density (VCD); or
a measured cell pool viability.
6. The method of claim 1 , wherein acquiring the second plurality of attribute values includes receiving attribute values measured on different days of the cell pool screening stage.
7. The method of claim 1 , wherein the one or more product quality attributes include a cell growth metric.
8. The method of claim 1 , wherein the one or more product quality attributes include one or more of (i) a titer or (ii) a specific productivity metric.
9. The method of claim 1 , wherein:
determining the ranking includes determining the ranking according to titer, at least by (i) predicting, for each of the plurality of candidate cell lines, a titer by analyzing the first plurality of attribute values and the second plurality of attribute values using the machine learning based regression estimator, and (ii) comparing the predicted titers;
the first plurality of attribute values includes a value based on a cell productivity score; and
the second plurality of attribute values includes a value based on a cell pool titer.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein predicting the titer includes analyzing the first plurality of attribute values using a Ridge regression estimator.
11 The method of claim 1 , wherein:
determining the ranking includes determining the ranking according to specific productivity, at least by (i) predicting, for each of the plurality of candidate cell lines, a specific productivity metric by analyzing the first plurality of attribute values and the second plurality of attribute values using the machine learning based regression estimator, and (ii) comparing the predicted specific productivity metrics; the first plurality of attribute values includes a value based on a cell productivity score and a value based on cell count; and
the second plurality of attribute values includes a value based on cell pool titer.
12. The method of claim 11 , wherein predicting the specific productivity metric includes using a Principal Component Analysis (PCA) regression estimator with two principal components.
13. The method of claim 1 , wherein:
determining the ranking includes determining the ranking according to cell growth, at least by (i) predicting, for each of the plurality of candidate cell lines, a cell growth metric by analyzing the first plurality of attribute values and the second plurality of attribute values using the machine learning based regression estimator, and (ii) comparing the predicted cell growth metrics; the first plurality of attribute values includes a value based on cell count; and
the second plurality of attribute values includes a value based on cell pool titer, a value based on cell pool time integral viable cell density (iVCD), a value based on cell pool viable cell densities (VCD) at different days, and a value based on cell pool viability at different days.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein predicting the cell growth metric includes using a Partial Least Squares (PLS) regression estimator with one principal component.
15. The method of claim 1 , wherein the method further comprises evaluating performance of the machine learning based regression estimator at least by calculating a Spearman's rho or average Spearman's rho for the machine learning based regression estimator.
16. The method of claim 1 , wherein the method further comprises:
based on the ranking, advancing one or more cell lines of the plurality of candidate cell lines to a next stage of cell line screening.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the next stage of cell line screening is a fedbatch cell culture stage. 18. One or more non-transitory, computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform the method of any one of claims 1 through 15.
19. A computing system comprising:
one or more processors; and
one or more non-transitory, computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing system to perform the method of any one of claims 1 through 15.
20. A method for facilitating selection of a master cell line from among candidate cell lines that produce recombinant proteins, the method comprising:
receiving, by one or more processors of a computing system, a plurality of attribute values associated with a smallscale cell culture for a specific cell line, wherein at least some of the plurality of attribute values are measurements of the smallscale cell culture;
predicting, by the one or more processors, one or more attribute values associated with a hypothetical large-scale cell culture for the specific cell line, at least by analyzing the plurality of attribute values associated with the small-scale cell culture using a machine learning based regression estimator, wherein the predicted one or more attribute values include a titer and/or one or more product quality attribute values; and
causing, by the one or more processors, one or both of (i) the predicted one or more attribute values, and (ii) an indication of whether the predicted one or more attribute values satisfy one or more cell line selection criteria, to be presented to a user via a user interface to facilitate selection of the master cell line for use in drug product manufacturing.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein analyzing the plurality of attribute values using a machine learning based regression estimator includes analyzing the plurality of attribute values using a decision tree regression estimator.
22. The method of claim 21 , wherein analyzing the plurality of attribute values using a machine learning based regression estimator includes analyzing the plurality of attribute values using a random forest regression estimator.
23. The method of claim 21 , wherein analyzing the plurality of attribute values using a machine learning based regression estimator includes analyzing the plurality of attribute values using an xgboost regression estimator. 24. The method of claim 20, wherein analyzing the plurality of attribute values using a machine learning based regression estimator includes analyzing the plurality of attribute values using a linear support vector machine (SVM) regression estimator.
25. The method of claim 20, wherein analyzing the plurality of attribute values using a machine learning based regression estimator includes analyzing the plurality of attribute values using an elastic net estimator.
26. The method of claim 20, wherein the predicted one or more attribute values include the one or more product quality attributes.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the predicted one or more product quality attribute values includes one or more predicted chromatography measurements.
28. The method of claim 20, further comprising:
receiving, from a user via a user interface, user-entered data including one or more of:
an identifier of the specific cell line,
a modality of a drug to be produced using the specific cell line,
an indication of the drug product to be produced using the specific cell line, or
a protein scaffold type associated with the drug to be produced using the specific cell line, wherein analyzing the plurality of attribute values associated with the small-scale cell culture using the machine learning based regression estimator further includes analyzing the user-entered data using the machine learning based regression estimator.
29. The method of claim 20, wherein receiving the plurality of attribute values associated with the small-scale cell culture includes receiving one or more of:
a measured titer of the small-scale cell culture;
a measured viable cell density of the small-scale cell culture; or
a measured viability of the small-scale cell culture. 30. The method of claim 20, wherein receiving the plurality of attribute values associated with the small-scale cell culture includes receiving one or more characteristics of a media of the small-scale cell culture.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein receiving the one or more characteristics of the media includes receiving a measured glucose concentration of the media.
32. The method of claim 20, wherein receiving the plurality of attribute values associated with the small-scale cell culture includes receiving:
a first attribute value corresponding to a first measurement of an attribute associated with the small-scale cell culture; and
a second attribute value corresponding to a second measurement of the attribute associated with the small-scale cell culture, the first measurement and the second measurement occurring on different days of the small-scale cell culture.
33. The method of claim 20, further comprising, prior to receiving the plurality of attribute values associated with the small-scale cell culture:
receiving, by the one or more processors and from a user via a user interface, data indicative of a use case; and selecting, by the one or more processors and based on the data indicative of the use case, the machine learning based regression estimator from among a plurality of estimators, each of the plurality of estimators being designed for a different use case.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein receiving data indicative of the use case includes receiving data indicative of at least (i) at least one of the one or more attribute values associated with the hypothetical large-scale cell culture, and (ii) a modality of a drug to be produced.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein:
receiving data indicative of the use case includes receiving data indicative of at least a titer associated with the hypothetical large-scale cell culture; and
analyzing the plurality of attribute values using a machine learning based regression estimator includes analyzing the plurality of attribute values using (i) a decision tree regression estimator, (ii) a random forest regression estimator, (iii) an xgboost regression estimator, or (iv) a linear support vector machine (SVM) regression estimator. 36. The method of claim 34, wherein:
receiving data indicative of the use case includes receiving data indicative of at least a chromatography measurement that is associated with the hypothetical large-scale cell culture; and
analyzing the plurality of attribute values using a machine learning based regression estimator includes analyzing the plurality of attribute values using an xgboost regression estimator.
37. The method of claim 33, wherein:
the method further comprises, for each estimator of the plurality of estimators, determining, by the one or more processors, a set of features most predictive of an output of the estimator; and
receiving the plurality of attribute values associated with the small-scale cell culture includes receiving only attribute values that are included within the set of features determined for the machine learning based regression estimator.
38. The method of claim 20, further comprising:
measuring, by one or more analytical instruments, the at least some of the plurality of attribute values associated with the small-scale cell culture.
39. The method of claim 20, wherein receiving the plurality of attribute values comprises receiving
measurements from an opto-electronic cell line generation and analysis system.
40. One or more non-transitory, computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform the method of any one of claims 20 through 39.
41. A computing system comprising:
one or more processors; and
one or more non-transitory, computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing system to perform the method of any one of claims 20 through 39.
</claims>
</document>
