<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BLUECORE COMPANY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HURWITZ, Michael Brent
COLLET, Sophia Emma Nina
LEUNG, Victoria
KARAM, Zahi Nadim
TUNNELL, Amber Victoria
KNODEL, Gino
BENNETT, Max Solomon
SHAH, Bahar Bipin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72663166
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EXPERIENCE OPTIMIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and corresponding systems are provided for configuring communications to customers when there are multiple campaigns scheduled in a given period. An optimal number of communications are sent prioritized according to business or performance measures where send times are spaced out in a manner that strives to attain the highest value. An example method includes determining a number of electronic communications, for a plurality of campaigns to send to the particular customer during a particular time period; determining the optimal send time during the particular time period; determining for which campaigns the particular customer is eligible; for each determined optimal time: determining a strategy including selecting an electronic communication for one of the campaigns to send to the eligible particular customer so as to maximize the value over the particular time period; and causing the selected electronic communication to be sent to the particular customer at the determined optimal time.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for communication via electronic messaging, the method comprising: receiving content and an audience from an entity for use for generating electronic communications for a plurality of campaigns, the audience including at least one particular customer who is an existing customer or a potential customer;
determining a number of electronic communications, for a plurality of campaigns, to send to the particular customer during a particular time period;
determining the optimal time during the particular time period to send each of the determined number of electronic communications, for the plurality of campaigns, to the particular customer;
determining that the particular customer is eligible for at least one of the plurality of campaigns;
for each determined optimal time:
determining a strategy including selecting an electronic
communication of the plurality of campaigns' electronic communications to send to the eligible particular customer, so as to maximize the value over the particular time period of sending the campaign's electronic communications to the eligible particular customer; and
for the determined strategy, causing the selected electronic communication to be sent to the particular customer at the determined optimal time.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the particular time period is a day, a week, a month, or a year.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of campaigns is an organized course of action to promote and sell a product or service.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the value and the strategy are precomputed.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the value and the strategy are computed on-the fly.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the value is a global value function that is a function of the probability of engaging the particular customer.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the global value function is based on certain information regarding the particular customer; a state of the particular customer; and/or current properties of the particular time period.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the global value function is based on historical online and offline activity.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the particular customer state is a function of the total number of campaigns for which the particular customer is eligible during the particular time period, and relative value of the campaigns to which the particular customer is eligible.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the particular customer state is a function of customer-proper attributes including age, gender, product affinities, or online/offline activities of the particular customer.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the customer-proper attributes further include time remaining in the particular time period and the number of electronic communications remaining to be sent for the particular customer during the particular time period.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the certain information regarding the particular customer includes:
engaging, by the particular customer, with at least one of the number of electronic communications;
purchasing, by the particular customer, one or more products or services within a website associated with at least one of the number of electronic communications; and/or
information concerning interactions of the particular customer with the website associated with at least one of the number of electronic communications.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the certain information regarding the particular customer further includes:
location data for the particular customer;
offline behavior at a brick and mortar location by the particular customer; or timing of interactions of the particular customer with the website.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the certain information regarding the particular customer further includes demographic information or profile information for the particular customer.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the electronic communications includes an email message, text message, or other social media message.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising training a model for the determining, for the particular customer, a number of electronic communications, for a plurality of campaigns, to send to the particular customer during a particular time period.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the model is a global model.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the model is other than a global model such that the model is personalized based on first party or third party data.
19. A system for communication via electronic messaging, the system comprising: a hardware processor; and a memory communicatively coupled with the hardware processor, the memory storing instructions which when executed by the hardware processor performs a method, the method comprising:
determining for a particular customer a number of electronic communications, for a plurality of campaigns, to send to the particular customer during a particular time period;
determining the optimal time during the particular time period to send each of the determined number of electronic communications for the plurality of campaigns to the particular customer;
determining that the particular customer is eligible for at least one of the plurality of campaigns;
for each determined optimal time, determining a strategy including selecting an electronic communication of the plurality of campaigns' electronic communications to send to the eligible particular customer, so as to maximize the value over the particular time period of sending the campaign's electronic communications to the eligible particular customer; and
for the determined strategy, causing the selected electronic communication to be sent to the particular customer at the determined best time.
20. A method for communication via messaging, the method comprising:
determining eligible customers for each campaign of a plurality of campaigns at each time interval of a time period, the eligible customers being existing customer or potential customers, and each of the plurality of campaigns being an organized course of action to promote and sell a product or service; and
for a particular time of the time period, determining whether to send a particular one of the eligible customers an electronic communication of a particular one of the plurality of electronic campaigns based at least in part on a state of the particular eligible customer at the particular time;
wherein the state of the particular eligible customer is determined based on a total number of campaigns the particular customer is eligible for at the particular time, and the value of each of the campaigns to which the particular customer is eligible.
</claims>
</document>
