<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMELEM
</assignee>

<inventors>
MANFIELD, MARIA
MANFIELD, MATTHEW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71735363
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DISSEMINATING INFORMATION TO CONSUMERS
</title>

<abstract>
A computer implemented system including a primary user device operable to access and execute computer instruction code that, when executed, causes generation and sending of notifications to one or more secondary user devices, a database of previously collected data in respect of users of the secondary user devices where the one or more secondary user devices operated by users other than users of primary user devices, and a matching engine, wherein generated notifications are matched, by the matching engine, to the user of a secondary user device according to analysis of the previously collected data regarding the user of the secondary user device such that notifications sent to the secondary user device are relevant to the user of the secondary user device.
</abstract>

<claims>
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1 . A computer implemented system including:
a primary user device operable to access and execute computer instruction code that, when executed, causes generation and sending of notifications to one or more secondary user devices;
a database of previously collected data in respect of users of the secondary user devices where the one or more secondary user devices operated by users other than users of primary user devices; and
a matching engine;
wherein generated notifications are matched, by the matching engine, to the user of a secondary user device according to analysis of the previously collected data regarding the user of the secondary user device such that notifications sent to the secondary user device are relevant to the user of the secondary user device.
2. A computer implemented system according to claim 1 , wherein the primary user device is operable to execute computer instruction code to send notifications to the one or more secondary user devices when the one or more secondary user devices are located within a specified region in relation to a geographical location.
3. A computer implemented system according to claim 2, wherein the geographic location is specified by the primary user device.
4. A computer implemented system according to either claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the geographic location is specified by the one or more secondary user devices.
5. A computer implemented system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the primary user device is operable to execute computer instruction code to send notifications to the one or more secondary user devices at a particular time, or within a particular period of time, specified by the primary user device.
6. A computer implemented system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the one or more secondary user devices are operable to execute computer instruction code to receive notifications at a particular time, or within a particular period of time, specified by the secondary user device.
7. A computer implemented system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the notifications relate to retail information.
8. A computer implemented system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the previously collected data includes purchases made by the user of the secondary user device.
9. A computer implemented system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the previously collected data includes search queries initiated by the secondary user device in respect of goods and/or services.
10. A computer implemented system according to any one of claims 2 to 9, wherein the previously collected data includes prior purchases made by the secondary user device at one or more geographical locations specified by the primary user device.
1 1 . A computer implemented system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the one or more secondary user devices are operable to send messages to the primary user device.
12. A computer implemented system according to any one of claims 2 to 1 1 , wherein the one or more secondary user devices are operable to reserve one or more products, or schedule one or more services, offered for sale by a retail establishment associated with the geographical location.
13. A computer implemented system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the one or more secondary user devices are operable to effect a payment transaction.
14. A computer implemented system according to any one of claims 2 to 13, wherein the primary user device associated with the geographical location receives a notification when the one or more secondary user devices are located within the specified region of the geographical location associated with the primary user device.
15. A computer implemented system according to claim 14, wherein the primary user device automatically sends notifications to one or more secondary user devices upon determining that the one or more secondary user devices are located within the specified region of the geographical location associated with the primary user device.
16. A computer implemented method including:
sending, by a primary user device operable to access and execute computer instruction code, notifications to one or more secondary user devices subsequent to accessing a database of previously collected data in respect of users of the secondary user devices;
wherein the notifications sent to the secondary user devices are matched, by a matching engine, to the user of the secondary user device according to analysis of the previously collected data regarding the user of the secondary user device such that the notifications sent to the secondary user device are relevant to the user of the secondary user device.
17. A computer implemented method according to claim 16, wherein the primary user device sends notifications to the one or more secondary user devices when the one or more secondary user devices are located within a specified region in relation to a geographical location.
18. A computer implemented method according to claim 17, wherein the geographic location is specified by the primary user device.
19. A computer implemented method according to either claim 17 or claim 18, wherein the geographic location is specified by the one or more secondary user devices.
20. A computer implemented method according to any one of claims 16 to 19, wherein the primary user device is operable to execute computer instruction code to send notifications to the one or more secondary user devices at a particular time, or within a particular period of time, specified by the primary user device. 21 . A computer implemented method according to any one of claims 16 to 20, wherein the one or more secondary user devices are operable to execute computer instruction code to receive notifications at a particular time, or within a particular period of time, specified by the secondary user device.
22. A computer implemented method according to any one of claims 16 to 21 , wherein the notifications relate to retail information.
23. A computer implemented method according to any one of claims 1 6 to 22, wherein the previously collected data includes purchases made by the user of the secondary user device.
24. A computer implemented method according to any one of claims 1 6 to 23, wherein the previously collected data includes search queries initiated by the secondary user device.
25. A computer implemented method according to any one of claims 1 7 to 24, wherein the previously collected data includes prior purchases made by the secondary user device at one or more geographical locations specified by the primary user device.
26. A computer implemented method according to any one of claims 1 6 to 25, wherein the one or more secondary user devices are operable to send messages to the primary user device.
27. A computer implemented method according to any one of claims 1 7 to 26, wherein the one or more secondary user devices are operable to reserve one or more products, or schedule one or more services, offered for sale by a retail establishment associated with the geographical location.
28. A computer implemented method according to any one of claims 1 6 to 19, wherein the one or more secondary user devices are operable to effect a payment transaction.
29. A computer implemented method according to any one of claims 1 7 to 28, wherein the primary user device associated with the geographical location receives a notification when the one or more secondary user devices are located within the specified region of the geographical location associated with the primary user device.
30. A computer implemented method according to claim 29, wherein the primary user device automatically sends notifications to one or more secondary user devices upon receiving notification that the one or more secondary user devices are located within the specified region of the geographical location associated with the primary user device.
31 . A computer readable medium including instructions stored therein executable by one or more processors to perform the steps of:
sending, by a primary user device associated with the one or more processors, notifications to one or more secondary user devices subsequent to accessing a database of previously collected data in respect of users of the secondary user devices;
wherein the notifications sent to the secondary user device are matched, by a matching engine, to the user of the secondary user device according to analysis of the previously collected data regarding the user of the secondary user device such that the notifications sent to the secondary user device are relevant to the user of the secondary user device.
32. A computer readable medium according to claim 31 , wherein the one or more processors perform the further step of sending, by the primary user device, notifications to the one or more secondary user devices when the one or more secondary user devices are located within a specified region in relation to a geographical location.
33. A computer readable medium according to claim 32, wherein the geographic location is specified by the primary user device.
34. A computer readable medium according to claim 32 or claim 33, wherein the geographic location is specified by the one or more secondary user devices.
35. A computer readable medium according to any one of claims 31 to 34, wherein the primary user device is operable to execute computer instruction code to send notifications to the one or more secondary user devices at a particular time, or within a particular period of time, specified by the primary user device.
36. A computer readable medium according to any one of claims 31 to 35, wherein the one or more secondary user devices are operable to execute computer instruction code to receive notifications at a particular time, or within a particular period of time, specified by the secondary user device.
37. A computer readable medium according to any one of claims 31 to 36, wherein the notifications relate to retail information.
38. A computer readable medium according to any one of claims 31 to 37, wherein the previously collected data includes purchases made by the user of the secondary user device.
39. A computer readable medium according to any one of claims 31 to 38, wherein the previously collected data includes search queries initiated by the secondary user device.
40. A computer readable medium according to any one of claims 31 to 39, wherein the previously collected data includes prior purchases made by the secondary user at one or more geographical locations specified by the primary user device.
41 . A computer readable medium according to any one of claims 31 to 40, wherein the one or more secondary user devices are operable to send messages to the primary user device.
42. A computer readable medium according to any one of claims 32 to 41 , wherein the one or more secondary user devices are operable to reserve one or more products, or schedule one or more services, offered for sale by a retail establishment associated with the geographical location.
43. A computer readable medium according to any one of claims 31 to 42, wherein the one or more secondary user devices are operable to effect a payment transaction.
44. A computer readable medium according to any one of claims 32 to 43, wherein the primary user device associated with the geographical location receives a notification when the one or more secondary user devices are located within the specified region of the geographical location associated with the primary user device.
45. A computer readable medium according to claim 44, wherein the primary user device automatically sends notifications to one or more secondary user devices upon receiving notification that the one or more secondary user devices are located within the specified region of the geographical location associated with the primary user device.
</claims>
</document>
