<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B29C49/78,G01B11/06,G01N21/90,G05B23/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AGR INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
WHITE, CRAIG
JEBADURAI, SUDHA
COWDEN, ROBERT
DIZINNO, Paul
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73051695
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTIVE. PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE FOR CONTAINER-FORMING PRODUCTION PROCESS
</title>

<abstract>
Computer-based predictive preventative maintenance system uses a data model to make preventative maintenance predictions for a container-forming apparatus that produces containers. The preventative maintenance predictions can be based on sensed operating conditions of the container-forming apparatus, sensed attributes of finished containers produced by the container-forming apparatus, and data about the container-forming apparatus itself. The objectives of the data model can be to reduce maintenance downtime for the container-forming apparatus while maintaining the quality of the produced containers.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A system comprising:
a container-forming apparatus for forming containers, the container-forming apparatus
comprising multiple container-forming components and a sensor;
a container inspection system for sensing a characteristic of the containers after formation by the container-forming apparatus; and
a computer system in communication with the container inspection system and the sensor of the container-forming apparatus, wherein the computer system comprises a processor that is programmed to compute a preventative maintenance suggestion for the container forming apparatus based on inputs from the sensor of the container-forming apparatus and inputs from the container inspection system.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a display that is in communication with the computer system, wherein the display is for displaying the preventative maintenance suggestion computed by the computer system.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is programmed to compute the preventative maintenance suggestion using a computer model that has a composite objective to reduce downtime of the container-forming apparatus and to form containers that satisfy an applicable quality standard for the containers when the container-forming apparatus is operating.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the processor is programmed to additionally use data about the container-forming apparatus to compute the preventative maintenance suggestion.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein:
the data are stored in a data store of the computer system; and
the data comprise data regarding when the multiple container-forming components of the container-forming apparatus are to be cleaned, serviced and/or replaced.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the computer model comprises a regression model.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the computer model comprises a machine learning model.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein the computer model comprises an ensemble of computer models.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the preventative maintenance suggestion comprises a preventative maintenance suggestion selected from the group consisting of:
a suggestion to replace a component of the container-forming apparatus;
a suggestion to clean a component of the container-forming apparatus;
a suggestion to re-align a component of the container-forming apparatus; and
a suggestion to lubricate a component of the container-forming apparatus.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to control an operating parameter of the container-forming apparatus based on the inputs from the sensor of the container-forming apparatus and the inputs from the container inspection system.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to control an operating parameter of the container-forming apparatus based on the preventative maintenance suggestion.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the operating parameter comprises an operating parameter selected from the group consisting of:
a temperature set point for the container-forming apparatus;
a timing parameter for the container-forming apparatus; and
a pressure parameter for the container-forming apparatus.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the container inspection system comprises an in-line container inspection system.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the characteristic sensed by the container inspection system comprises a wall thickness of the container.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein:
the container-forming apparatus is located in a facility
the system further comprises a facility sensor; and
the processor is further programmed to control the operating parameter of the container forming apparatus based on inputs from the facility sensor.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the facility sensor comprises a facility sensor selected from the group consisting of:
a temperature sensor that detects ambient temperature in the facility;
an atmospheric pressure sensor that detects atmospheric pressure in the facility;
a moisture sensor that detects moisture in air in the facility; and
an electricity meter that senses an amount of electric energy consumed by the facility.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the container-forming apparatus comprises a blow molder for forming plastic containers.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein:
the multiple container-forming components comprise:
one or more molds; and
one or more heaters; and
the sensor comprises a blow molder sensor.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the blow molder sensor comprises a sensor selected from the group consisting of:
an oven temperature sensor;
a preform feed rate sensor;
a timer that generates time stamps for when the containers are formed;
a pressure sensor;
a mold temperature sensor; and
a preform temperature sensor.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the blow molder sensor comprises two sensors selected from the group consisting of:
an oven temperature sensor; a preform feed rate sensor;
a timer that generates time stamps for when the containers are formed;
a pressure sensor;
a mold temperature sensor; and
a preform temperature sensor.
21. The system of claim 19, wherein the preventative maintenance suggestion comprises a preventative maintenance suggestion selected from the group consisting of:
a suggestion to replace a mold of the blow molder;
a suggestion to clean a mold of the blow molder;
a suggestion to re-align a stretch rod of the blow molder;
a suggestion to replace a stretch rod of the blow molder;
a suggestion to clean a valve of the blow molder;
a suggestion to replace a spindle part of the blow molder;
a suggestion to replace a seal of the blow molder;
a suggestion to replace a nozzle of the blow molder;
a suggestion to clean an oven heater of the blow molder;
a suggestion to replace an oven heater of the blow molder;
a suggestion to replace a vent of the blow molder;
a suggestion to lubricate a component of the blow molder;
a suggestion to replace an air filter of the blow molder;
a suggestion to repair a transfer gripper of the blow molder; and
a suggestion to replace a transfer gripper of the blow molder.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the processor is programmed to compute the preventative maintenance suggestion using a computer model that has a composite objective to reduce downtime of the blow molder and to form containers that satisfy an applicable quality standard for the containers when the blow molder is operating.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the processor is further programmed to control an operating parameter of the blow molder based on the inputs from the blow molder sensor and the inputs from the container inspection system.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the container inspection system comprises an in-line container inspection system.
25. The system of claim 24, wherein:
the container-forming apparatus is located in a facility;
the system further comprises a facility sensor; and
the processor is further programmed to control the operating parameter of the container
forming apparatus based on inputs from the facility sensor.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the facility sensor comprises a facility sensor selected from the group consisting of:
a temperature sensor that detects ambient temperature in the facility;
an atmospheric pressure sensor that detects atmospheric pressure in the facility;
a moisture sensor that detects moisture in air in the facility; and
an electricity meter that senses an amount of electric energy consumed by the facility.
27. A method comprising:
forming, by a container-forming apparatus, containers, wherein the container-forming
apparatus comprises multiple container-forming components and a sensor;
sensing, by a container inspection system, a characteristic of the containers after formation of the containers by the container-forming apparatus; and
computing, by a computer system that is in communication with the container inspection system and the sensor of the container-forming apparatus, a preventative maintenance suggestion for the container-forming apparatus based on inputs from the sensor of the container-forming apparatus and inputs from the container inspection system.
28. The method of claim 27, further comprising displaying, by a display that is in communication with the computer system, the preventative maintenance suggestion computed by the computer system.
29. The method of claim 28, further comprising performing the preventative maintenance suggestion for the container-forming apparatus.
30. The method of claim 27, wherein computing the preventative maintenance suggestion comprises computing the preventative maintenance suggestion using a computer model that has a composite objective to reduce downtime of the container-forming apparatus and to form containers that satisfy an applicable quality standard for the containers when the container forming apparatus is operating.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein:
the computing the preventative maintenance suggestion further comprises computing the preventative maintenance suggestion using data about the container-forming apparatus; and
the data comprise data regarding when the multiple container-forming components of the container-forming apparatus are to be cleaned, serviced and/or replaced.
32. The method of claim 30, wherein:
the computer model comprises a machine learning model; and
the method comprises continuously training the machine learning model as the container forming apparatus is operated.
33. The method of claim 27, wherein the preventative maintenance suggestion comprises a preventative maintenance suggestion selected from the group consisting of:
a suggestion to replace a component of the container-forming apparatus;
a suggestion to clean a component of the container-forming apparatus;
a suggestion to re-align a component of the container-forming apparatus; and
a suggestion to lubricate a component of the container-forming apparatus.
34. The method of claim 27, further comprising controlling, by the computer system, an operating parameter of the container-forming apparatus based on the inputs from the sensor of the container-forming apparatus and the inputs from the container inspection system.
35. The method of claim 27, wherein sensor the characteristic of the containers comprises inspecting, by the inspection system, the containers in-line as the containers are formed by the container-forming apparatus.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein: the container-forming apparatus is located in a facility;
the method further comprises sensing, by a facility sensor, a facility characteristic; and controlling the operating parameter of the container-forming apparatus further comprises controlling the operating parameter of the container-forming apparatus based on inputs from the facility sensor.
37. The method of claim 27, wherein:
the container-forming apparatus comprises a blow molder for forming plastic containers; the multiple container-forming components comprise:
one or more molds; and
one or more heaters; and
the sensor comprises a blow molder sensor.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the preventative maintenance suggestion comprises a preventative maintenance suggestion selected from the group consisting of:
a suggestion to replace a mold of the blow molder;
a suggestion to clean a mold of the blow molder;
a suggestion to re-align a stretch rod of the blow molder;
a suggestion to replace a stretch rod of the blow molder;
a suggestion to clean a valve of the blow molder;
a suggestion to replace a spindle part of the blow molder;
a suggestion to replace a seal of the blow molder;
a suggestion to replace a nozzle of the blow molder;
a suggestion to clean an oven heater of the blow molder;
a suggestion to replace an oven heater of the blow molder;
a suggestion to replace a vent of the blow molder;
a suggestion to lubricate a component of the blow molder;
a suggestion to replace an air filter of the blow molder;
a suggestion to repair a transfer gripper of the blow molder; and
a suggestion to replace a transfer gripper of the blow molder.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein computing the preventative maintenance suggestion comprises computing the preventative maintenance suggestion using a computer model that has a composite objective to reduce downtime of the blow molder and to form containers that satisfy an applicable quality standard for the containers when the blow molder is operating.
40. The method of claim 39, further comprising controlling, by the computer system, an operating parameter of the blow molder based on the inputs from the blow molder sensor and the inputs from the container inspection system.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein:
the container-forming apparatus is located in a facility;
the method further comprises sensing, by a facility sensor, a characteristic of the facility; and controlling the operating parameter of the container-forming apparatus further comprises controlling the operating parameter of the container-forming apparatus based on inputs from the facility sensor.
</claims>
</document>
