<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/04,G01R33/035,G06N20/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GENETESIS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SETEGN, EMMANUEL T.
MUCHHALA, RAJ
MOORE, BENJAMIN DONALDSON
ERASALA, VINEET NAVEEN
MALHOTRA, RHEA
SHRIVASTAVA, PEEYUSH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71947141
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS, DEVICES, SOFTWARE, AND METHODS FOR A PLATFORM ARCHITECTURE
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides methods, software, systems, and devices that include a set of hardware and software tools employed to rapidly rule-out patients that present to, for example, the emergency room and observation clinical decision units with chest pain, for coronary artery disease.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A healthcare platform comprising:
(a) an electromagnetic field sensing system configured to sense an electromagnetic field data associated with an individual;
(b) a healthcare provider portal configured to be used by a healthcare provider of the individual;
(c) a patient portal configured to be used by the individual; and
(d) a server configured to operatively communicate with the healthcare provider portal, the patient portal, or both, the server encoded with software modules comprising:
(i) a data ingestion module configured to receive the electromagnetic field data;
(ii) a service module configured to provide at least one healthcare service that is accessed through either the healthcare provider portal, the patient portal, or both, the healthcare service related to the sensed electromagnetic field data; and
(iii) an interface module configured to provide the healthcare provider portal, the patient portal, or both with access to the healthcare service, the interface module comprising an application programming interface.
2. The platform of claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic field sensing system comprises an array of sensors configured to detect electromagnetic fields, the array of sensors comprising optically pumped magnetometer sensors, magnetic induction sensors, magneto-resistive sensors, SQUID sensors, or a combination thereof.
3. The platform of claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic field sensing system comprises an ambient electromagnetic shield.
4. The platform of claim 3, wherein the electromagnetic shield comprises a bore through which the body of the individual is passed.
5. The platform of claim 1, wherein the server is further encoded with an analysis module configured to apply machine learning to analyze the electromagnetic field data thereby generating an analysis result, and determine a diagnosis of the individual based on the analysis result.
6. The platform of claim 1, wherein the server is further encoded with a graphic module configured to generate a graphical representation of the sensed electromagnetic field.
7. The platform of claim 6, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises a graphical representation of a sensed electromagnetic field.
8. The platform of claim 1, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises an
interactive electronic medical record.
9. The platform of claim 1, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises an
interactive medical image.
10. The platform of claim 1, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises raw
sensed electromagnetic field data.
11. The platform of claim 1, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises a global reader service which provides an interpretation of a medical image.
12. The platform of claim 1, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises an
interactive electronic medical record management service.
13. The platform of claim 1, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises an
analytic module configured to analyze the electromagnetic field data and generate an analysis result.
14. The platform of claim 13, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises a
diagnostic module configured to identify a diagnosis of the individual based on the analysis result.
15. The platform of claim 1, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises a mapping module configured to generate an electric current map based on the electromagnetic field data.
16. The platform of claim 1, wherein the healthcare provider portal provides a
communication interface configured to provide at least one of a text, audio, and video transmission from the healthcare provider portal to the patient portal.
17. The platform of claim 1, wherein the patient portal provides a communication interface configured to provide at least one of a text, audio, and video transmission from the patient portal to another patient portal.
18. The platform of claim 1, wherein the application programing interface provides a portal for encoding protocols for the behavior of the interface module.
19. The platform of claim 18, wherein the protocols are configured to cause the software modules to integrate with a customized healthcare provider portal.
20. The platform of claim 18, wherein the protocols are configured to cause the software modules to integrate with a customized patient portal.
21. The platform of claim 18, wherein the protocols are configured to generate a user
authentication system.
22. The platform of claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic field sensing device is configured to sense an electromagnetic field associated with a heart of the individual.
23. A computer-implemented method comprising:
(a) sensing electromagnetic field data associated with an individual;
(b) receiving the electromagnetic field data with an ingestion module of a server, the server encoded with a service module configured to provide at least one healthcare service related to the sensed electromagnetic field; and
(c) providing access to the service module to a healthcare provider portal, a patient portal, or both through an interface module, wherein the interface module comprises an application programming interface.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the electromagnetic field sensing system comprises an array of sensors configured to detect electromagnetic fields, the array of sensors comprising optically pumped magnetometer sensors, magnetic induction sensors, magneto-resistive sensors, SQUID sensors, or a combination thereof.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the electromagnetic field sensing system comprises an ambient electromagnetic shield.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the electromagnetic shield comprises a bore through which the body of the individual is passed.
27. The method of claim 23, wherein the server is further encoded with an analysis module configured to apply machine learning to analyze the electromagnetic field data thereby generating an analysis result, and determine a diagnosis of the individual based on the analysis result.
28. The method of claim 23, wherein the server is further encoded with a graphic module configured to generate a graphical representation of the sensed electromagnetic field.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises a
graphical representation of a sensed electromagnetic field.
30. The method of claim 23, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises an
interactive electronic medical record.
31. The method of claim 23, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises an
interactive medical image.
32. The method of claim 23, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises raw
sensed electromagnetic field data.
33. The method of claim 23, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises a global reader service which provides an interpretation of a medical image.
34. The method of claim 23, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises an interactive electronic medical record management service.
35. The method of claim 23, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises an
analytic module configured to analyze the electromagnetic field data and generate an analysis result.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises a
diagnostic module configured to identify a diagnosis of the individual based on the analysis result.
37. The method of claim 23, wherein the at least one healthcare service comprises a mapping module configured to generate an electric current map based on the electromagnetic field data.
38. The method of claim 23, wherein the healthcare provider portal provides a
communication interface configured to provide at least one of a text, audio, and video transmission from the healthcare provider portal to the patient portal.
39. The method of claim 23, wherein the patient portal provides a communication interface configured to provide at least one of a text, audio, and video transmission from the patient portal to another patient portal.
40. The method of claim 23, wherein the application programing interface provides a portal for encoding protocols for the behavior of the interface module.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein the protocols are configured to cause the software modules to integrate with a customized healthcare provider portal.
42. The method of claim 40, wherein the protocols are configured to cause the software modules to integrate with a customized patient portal.
43. The method of claim 40, wherein the protocols are configured to generate a user
authentication system.
44. The method of claim 23, the electromagnetic field sensing device is configured to sense an electromagnetic field associated with a heart of the individual.
</claims>
</document>
