<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/60,G06F21/62,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PICKARD, Elliott John
TUCKER, Luke David
</assignee>

<inventors>
PICKARD, Elliott John
TUCKER, Luke David
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70285691
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES FOR MANAGEMENT OF DIGITAL OR PHYSICAL ASSETS VIA DISTRIBUTED LEDGER
</title>

<abstract>
In various embodiments, the disclosed system facilitates the access, creation, addition, deletion, revision, security, availability, integrity, registration, conclusion, validation, and notification of certain digital assets, such as an individual's consent for use or reuse or personal information, legal documentation, on a distributed ledger or blockchain system by using crossparty authentication of both a creator's and validator's unique identifying information. In general, in multiple embodiments, the disclosed system provides the ability to update details to documentation in real time, improves security through private key encryption and the implementation of a distributed ledger, and makes the documentation an immutable record. As described in detail herein, aspects of the technology are particularly suited to certain legal documents or instruments that require witnesses, validation, and truth and accuracy in modification or edits, though it will be appreciated that the technology is not strictly limited to legal documentation.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for managing digital assets on a distributed ledger, comprising:
receiving and/or generating first data at a first computing device associated with a first actor, the first data comprising first identification data corresponding to the first actor, identifying data corresponding to a second actor, and digital asset data defining a digital asset to be maintained on the distributed ledger;
transmitting the first identification data to a second computing device associated with the second actor;
receiving and/or generating second data at the second computing device, the second data comprising second identification data corresponding to the second actor and a confirmation that the second actor has performed a successful validation operation of the first identification data; transmitting the second identification data to the first computing device;
receiving and/or generating a confirmation at the first computing device that the first actor has performed a successful validation operation of the second identification data;
generating a block data set based on the first identification data, the second identification data, and the digital asset data; and
adding the block data set to the distributed ledger.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
encrypting the first identification data prior to transmitting the first identification data to the second computing device; and
enabling decryption of the first identification data at the second computing device upon determination of authorized access to the first identification data by the second actor.
3. The method of any of claims 1-2, further comprising:
encrypting the second identification data prior to transmitting the second identification data to the first computing device; and
enabling decryption of the second identification data at the first computing device upon determination of authorized access to the second identification data by the first actor.
4. The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein the successful validation operation of the first identification data comprises confirmation of one or more correct answers and/or actions to one or more validation questions and/or validation tasks from the second actor with respect to the first identification data.
5. The method of any of claims 1-4, wherein the successful validation operation of the second identification data comprises confirmation of one or more correct answers and/or actions to one or more validation questions and/or validation tasks from the first actor with respect to the second identification data.
6. The method of any of claims 1-5, further comprising, prior to adding the block data set to the distributed ledger:
transmitting the block data set to a plurality of computing devices affiliated with the distributed ledger; and
receiving confirmation from one or more of the plurality of computing devices that the block data set is valid.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the one or more of the plurality of computing devices do not include the first computing device or the second computing device.
8. The method of any of claims 6-7, further comprising:
generating a timestamp corresponding to generation of the block data set; and
appending the timestamp to the block data set.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising:
extracting a prev-hash from the distributed ledger; and
appending the prev-hash to the block data set.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising updating the block data set on the distributed ledger to include the timestamp and the prev-hash.
11. The method of any of claims 1-10, further comprising generating a first private key for the first actor, wherein the first private key is generated as a function of the first identification data, and wherein the first private key is necessary to access the digital asset in the block data set maintained on the distributed ledger.
12. The method of claim 1 1, further comprising:
receiving and/or generating a request for modification of the digital asset at a computing device associated with the first actor, wherein the request includes the first private key and an indication of the block data set comprising the digital asset;
accessing the block data set on the distributed ledger using the first private key;
enabling access to the block data set to the first actor for modification of the block data set; and
upon modification, updating the block data set on the distributed ledger.
13. The method of any of claims 1-12, further comprising generating a second private key for the second actor, wherein the second private key is generated as a function of the second identification data, and wherein the second private key is necessary to access the digital asset in the block data set maintained on the distributed ledger.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the digital asset data includes one or more third parties to be given access to the digital asset upon a crystallization event.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising, upon the crystallization event:
receiving and/or generating a request for access to the digital asset at a computing device associated with the second actor, wherein the request includes the second private key, an indication of the block data set comprising the digital asset, and proof of the crystallization event; accessing the block data set on the distributed ledger using the second private key; upon successful access to the block data set based on the second private key, retrieving the digital asset from the block data set; and
transmitting the digital asset to the one or more third parties.
16. The method of any of claims 1-15, wherein the digital asset comprises a will, estate document, power of attorney, trust, indication of future wishes, guardianship of relatives, or living will.
17. The method of any of claims 1-16, wherein the digital asset comprises instructions relating to transfer of assets.
18. The method of any of claims 1-17, wherein the digital asset comprises a healthcare record or healthcare data.
19. The method of any of claims 1-18, wherein the digital asset comprises an indication of personal preferences of the first actor.
20. The method of any of claims 1-19, wherein the digital asset comprises system or hardware data pertaining to the first computing device of the first actor.
</claims>
</document>
