<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9035,G06F16/908
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDRABI, SYED
HWANG, MICHAEL
MODI, RAJAN
MOHANRAM, VENKATESH
PALANISAMY, MUTHUKUMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70279586
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AUTO-COMPLETION OF ICS FLOW USING ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE/MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
In accordance with an embodiment, described herein are systems and methods for auto-completion of ICS flow using artificial intelligence/machine learning. Next actions prediction is a service that assists users in modeling the flows quickly by predicting and suggesting the next set of actions a user might be thinking of adding. The service also assists the user to follow some of the best practices while creating an integration flow
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A system for supporting auto-completion of integration flows, comprising:
a computer including one or more microprocessors;
wherein the computer is configured to perform a method comprising:
displaying, via a development interface hosted on the computer, a graphical representation of an integration flow, wherein the integration flow comprises a source connection,
receiving data indicative of a user of the development interface, determining a plurality of integration flows based upon the received data indicative of the user, and
displaying, via the development interface hosted on the computer, graphical representations of each of the plurality of the determined integration flows,
wherein each of the determined integration flows corresponds to a integration defining an interface between the source connection and a target connection.
2. The system of claim 1 , wherein the source connection is associated with data indicative of a process context, and wherein the determining the plurality of integration flows is further based upon the data indicative of the process context.
3. The system of claims 1 or 2, wherein the determining the plurality of integration flows is based upon a hierarchical clustering model.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the hierarchical clustering model comprises a plurality of contexts arranged in a tree structure, wherein each of the plurality of contexts is associated with one or more pre-populated integration flows of a plurality of pre-populated integration flows.
5. The system of claims 1 or 4, wherein the determined plurality of integration flows comprises a set of the plurality of pre-populated integration flows.
6. The system of claims 1 or 4,
wherein the received data indicative of a user of the development interface comprises a plurality of contexts including a company context, a department context, and a job-type context.
7. The system of claim 6,
wherein the plurality of contexts of the hierarchical clustering model correspond to the company context, the department context, and the job-type context.
8. A method for supporting auto-completion of integration flows, comprising:
providing a computer including one or more microprocessors;
displaying, via a development interface hosted on the computer, a graphical representation of an integration flow, wherein the integration flow comprises a source connection;
receiving data indicative of a user of the development interface;
determining a plurality of integration flows based upon the received data indicative of the user, and
displaying, via the development interface hosted on the computer, graphical representations of each of the plurality of the determined integration flows,
wherein each of the determined integration flows corresponds to a integration defining an interface between the source connection and a target connection.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the source connection is associated with data indicative of a process context, and wherein the determining the plurality of integration flows is further based upon the data indicative of the process context.
10. The method of claims 8 or 9, wherein the determining the plurality of integration flows is based upon a hierarchical clustering model.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the hierarchical clustering model comprises a plurality of contexts arranged in a tree structure, wherein each of the plurality of contexts is associated with one or more pre-populated integration flows of a plurality of pre-populated integration flows.
12. The method of claims 8 or 11 , wherein the determined plurality of integration flows comprises a set of the plurality of pre-populated integration flows.
13. The method of claims 8 or 11 ,
wherein the received data indicative of a user of the development interface comprises a plurality of contexts including a company context, a department context, and a job-type context.
14. The method of claim 13,
wherein the plurality of contexts of the hierarchical clustering model correspond to the company context, the department context, and the job-type context.
15. A computer readable storage medium having instructions thereon for supporting auto completion of integration flows, which when read and executed cause a computer to perform steps comprising:
providing a computer including one or more microprocessors;
displaying, via a development interface hosted on the computer, a graphical representation of an integration flow, wherein the integration flow comprises a source connection;
receiving data indicative of a user of the development interface;
determining a plurality of integration flows based upon the received data indicative of the user, and
displaying, via the development interface hosted on the computer, graphical representations of each of the plurality of the determined integration flows,
wherein each of the determined integration flows corresponds to a integration defining an interface between the source connection and a target connection.
16. The computer readable storage medium of claims 15,
wherein the determining the plurality of integration flows is based upon a hierarchical clustering model; and
wherein the hierarchical clustering model comprises a plurality of contexts arranged in a tree structure, wherein each of the plurality of contexts is associated with one or more pre populated integration flows of a plurality of pre-populated integration flows.
17. The computer readable storage medium of claims 16, wherein the determined plurality of integration flows comprises a set of the plurality of pre-populated integration flows.
18. The computer readable storage medium of claims 15 or 16,
wherein the received data indicative of a user of the development interface comprises a plurality of contexts including a company context, a department context, and a job-type context; and
wherein the plurality of contexts of the hierarchical clustering model correspond to the company context, the department context, and the job-type context.
19. A system for next step prediction for integration flows, comprising:
a computer including one or more microprocessors;
wherein the computer is configured to perform a method comprising:
displaying, via a development interface hosted on the computer, a graphical representation of an integration flow comprising a source connection, the source connection being received from a user,
receiving data indicative of the user of the development interface, determining a plurality of next step predictions for the integration flow based upon a pattern recognition analysis and the received data indicative of the user,
displaying, via the development interface hosted on the computer, graphical representations of the plurality of the determined next step predictions for the integration flow,
receiving an indication of a selection of a next step prediction of the plurality of the determined next step predictions for the integration flow, and
adding the selected next step prediction to the integration flow; wherein the pattern recognition analysis uses an input pattern of objects of the integration flow comprising the source connection to determine the plurality of next step predictions for the integration flow.
20. A system for next object prediction for integration flows, comprising:
a computer including one or more microprocessors;
wherein the computer is configured to perform a method comprising:
displaying, via a development interface hosted on the computer, a graphical representation of an integration flow comprising a source connection, the source connection being received from a user,
receiving data indicative of the user of the development interface, receiving an indication of a next step of the integration flow,
determining a plurality of next object predictions for the next step of the integration flow based upon a pattern recognition analysis and the received data indicative of the user, wherein each next object prediction is one of an application, an operation, or a business object,
displaying, via the development interface hosted on the computer, graphical representations of the plurality of next object predictions for the next step of the integration flow;
receiving an indication of a selection of a next object prediction of the plurality of the determined next object predictions for the integration flow, and
configuring the next step of the integration flow with the selected next object prediction;
wherein the pattern recognition analysis compares an input pattern of objects of the integration flow comprising the source connection to integration flows within an accessible training database to determine the plurality of next object predictions for the integration flow.
</claims>
</document>
