<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W24/02,H04W24/08,H04W36/08,H04W36/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
TULLBERG, HUGO
OTTERSTEN, JOHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67851177
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING FOR HANDOVER
</title>

<abstract>
According to certain embodiments, a method for use in a network node for predicting handover comprises training a first sequential time-based machine learning model using radio link monitoring measurements for a user equipment (UE) from a plurality of geographic positions within a first cluster of cells, times of handover of the UE to target cells of the first cluster of cells, and cell identifiers of the target cells of the first cluster of cells for each handover. The method further comprises: predicting a time for a UE handover to a target cell using the first sequential time-based machine learning model, radio link monitoring measurements for the UE, and geographic positions associated with the radio link monitoring measurements; determining whether enough time exists to perform the UE handover before the predicted handover time; and upon determining enough time exists, performing the UE handover to the target cell.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method (900) for use in a network node for predicting handover, the method comprising:
training (912) a first sequential time-based machine learning model using:
radio link monitoring measurements for a user equipment (UE) from a plurality of geographic positions within a first cluster of cells;
times of handover of the UE to target cells of the first cluster of cells; and cell identifiers of the target cells of the first cluster of cells for each handover; predicting (918) a time for a UE handover to a target cell using the first sequential timebased machine learning model, radio link monitoring measurements for the UE, and geographic positions associated with the radio link monitoring measurements;
determining (920) whether enough time exists to perform the UE handover before the predicted handover time; and
upon determining enough time exists to perform the UE handover before the predicted handover time, performing (922) the UE handover to the target cell.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising upon determining not enough time exists to perform the UE handover before the predicted handover time, updating (912) the first sequential time-based machine learning model based on an estimated time to perform the UE handover.
3. The method of any one of claims 1-2, further comprising:
determining (924) the UE handover to the target cell failed; and
updating (912) the first sequential time-based machine learning model based on the failure information.
4. The method of any one of claims 1-3, further comprising:
training (914) a second sequential time-based machine learning model using:
radio link monitoring measurements for a user equipment (UE) from a plurality of geographic positions within a second cluster of cells; times of handover of the UE to target cells of the second cluster of cells; and cell identifiers of the target cells of the second cluster of cells for each handover; and
wherein predicting the time for a UE handover to a target cell further comprises using the second sequential time-based machine learning model, radio link monitoring measurements for the UE, and geographic positions associated with the radio link monitoring measurements.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first sequential time-based machine learning model is a different model than the second sequential time-based machine learning model.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein predicting the time for a UE handover to a target cell uses the first or second sequential time-based machine learning model based on a category type of the UE.
7. The method of any one of claims 4-6, further comprising training (916) a third sequential time-based machine learning model using outputs of the first and second sequential time-based machine learning models; and
wherein predicting the time for a UE handover to a target cell comprises using the third sequential time-based machine learning model, radio link monitoring measurements for the UE, and geographic positions associated with the radio link monitoring measurements.
8. The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the first sequential time-based machine learning model comprises a recurrent neural network or long short-term memory network.
9. The method of any one of claims 1-8, wherein training the first sequential timebased machine learning model is based on network simulation.
10. The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the network node is a base station. 11. The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the network node is a core network node.
12. A network node (160) operable to predict handover, the network node comprising processing circuitry (170) operable to:
train a first sequential time-based machine learning model using:
radio link monitoring measurements for a user equipment (UE) (110) from a plurality of geographic positions within a first cluster of cells;
times of handover of the UE to target cells of the first cluster of cells; and cell identifiers of the target cells of the first cluster of cells for each handover; predict a time for a UE handover to a target cell using the first sequential time-based machine learning model, radio link monitoring measurements for the UE, and geographic positions associated with the radio link monitoring measurements;
determine whether enough time exists to perform the UE handover before the predicted handover time; and
upon determining enough time exists to perform the UE handover before the predicted handover time, perform the UE handover to the target cell.
13. The network node of claim 12, the processing circuitry further operable to, upon determining not enough time exists to perform the UE handover before the predicted handover time, update the first sequential time-based machine learning model based on an estimated time to perform the UE handover.
14. The network node of any one of claims 12-13, the processing circuitry further operable to:
determine the UE handover to the target cell failed; and
update the first sequential time-based machine learning model based on the failure information.
15. The network node of any one of claims 12-14, the processing circuitry further operable to: train a second sequential time-based machine learning model using:
radio link monitoring measurements for a user equipment (UE) from a plurality of geographic positions within a second cluster of cells;
times of handover of the UE to target cells of the second cluster of cells; and cell identifiers of the target cells of the second cluster of cells for each handover; and
wherein the processing circuitry is operable to predict the time for a UE handover to a target cell by using the second sequential time-based machine learning model, radio link monitoring measurements for the UE, and geographic positions associated with the radio link monitoring measurements.
16. The network node of claim 15, wherein the first sequential time-based machine learning model is a different model than the second sequential time-based machine learning model.
17. The network node of claim 16, wherein the processing circuitry is operable to predict the time for a UE handover to a target cell by using the first or second sequential timebased machine learning model based on a category type of the UE.
18. The network node of any one of claims 15-17, the processing circuitry further operable to train a third sequential time-based machine learning model using outputs of the first and second sequential time-based machine learning models; and
wherein the processing circuitry is operable to predict the time for a UE handover to a target cell by using the third sequential time-based machine learning model, radio link monitoring measurements for the UE, and geographic positions associated with the radio link monitoring measurements.
19. The network node of any one of claims 12-18, wherein the first sequential timebased machine learning model comprises a recurrent neural network or long short-term memory network. 20. The network node of any one of claims 12-19, wherein the processing circuitry is operable to train the first sequential time-based machine learning model based on network simulation.
21. The network node of any one of claims 12-20, wherein the network node is a base station.
22. The network node of any one of claims 12-20, wherein the network node is a core network node.
23. A network node (160) operable to predict handover, the network node comprising a training module (1602) and a determining module (1604);
the training module operable to train a first sequential time-based machine learning model using:
radio link monitoring measurements for a user equipment (UE) (110) from a plurality of geographic positions within a first cluster of cells;
times of handover of the UE to target cells of the first cluster of cells; and cell identifiers of the target cells of the first cluster of cells for each handover; the determining module operable to:
predict a time for a UE handover to a target cell using the first sequential timebased machine learning model, radio link monitoring measurements for the UE, and geographic positions associated with the radio link monitoring measurements;
determine whether enough time exists to perform the UE handover before the predicted handover time; and
upon determining enough time exists to perform the UE handover before the predicted handover time, perform the UE handover to the target cell.
</claims>
</document>
