<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/56
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABERGEL, MEIR E.
CHELARESCU, FILIP
RODRIGUES, JOHN D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70289509
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FILE STORAGE SERVICE INITIATION OF ANTIVIRUS SOFTWARE LOCALLY INSTALLED ON A USER DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for repairing user devices infected with malicious code. One method includes storing registration information for a plurality of user devices accessing a remote file storage system, the registration information including a unique identifier of each user device and an identifier of an antivirus software installed locally on each user device. The method also includes, in response to detecting an infected file within the remote file storage system, determining a unique identifier of one of the a user device included in the plurality of user devices interacting with the infected file, accessing the registration information to identify, based on the unique identifier of the user device interacting with the infected file within the remote file storage system, an identifier of antivirus software installed locally on the user device, and remotely initiating the antivirus software installed locally on the user device based on the identifier of the antivirus software.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for repairing user devices infected with malicious code, the method comprising:
storing registration information for each of a plurality of user devices accessing a remote file storage system, the registration information for each of the plurality of user devices including a unique identifier of each user device and an identifier of an antivirus software installed locally on each user device; and
in response to detecting an infected file within the remote file storage system, determining, with an electronic processor remote from each of the plurality of user devices, a unique identifier of a user device included in the plurality of user devices interacting with the infected file within the remote file storage system, accessing, with the electronic processor, the registration information to identify, based on the unique identifier of the user device interacting with the infected file within the remote file storage system, an identifier of antivirus software installed locally on the user device, and
remotely initiating, with the electronic processor, the antivirus software installed locally on the user device based on the identifier of the antivirus software.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising presenting a user interface prompting a user of the user device to approve remote initiation of the antivirus software locally installed on the user device, and
wherein remotely initiating the antivirus software installed locally on the user device includes remotely initiating the antivirus software installed locally on the user device in response to receiving approval to remotely initiate the antivirus software through the user interface.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the registration information further includes at least one selecting from a group consisting of an operating system installed locally on each of the plurality of user devices, a version of the operating system installed locally on each of the plurality of user devices, and a device type of each of the plurality of user devices.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving status information from the antivirus software installed locally on the user device and presenting at least a portion of the status information within a user interface.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising, in response to the status information indicating a failure of the antivirus software installed locally on the user device, notifying a user of the user device of the failure and recommending an action for the user to perform to attempt to repair the user device.
6. A system for repairing user devices infected with malicious code, the system comprising:
a memory storing a plurality of files within a remote file storage system accessible by a plurality of user devices; and
an electronic processor configured to, in response to detection of an infected file within the plurality of files stored within the memory,
determine a user device included in the plurality of user devices interacting with the infected file,
determine antivirus software installed locally on the user device, prompt a user associated with the user device to approve remote initiation of
the antivirus software installed locally on the user device, and
in response to receiving approval of the remote initiation of the antivirus software, remotely initiate the antivirus software installed locally on the user device.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the electronic processor is configured to determine the user device interacting with the infected file by determining the user device uploading the infected file to the remote file storage system or determining the user device modifying the infected file within the remote file storage system.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the electronic processor is further configured to compare the antivirus software installed locally on the user device to a list of approved antivirus software applications, and remotely initiate the antivirus software installed locally on the user device when the antivirus software is included in the list of approved antivirus software applications.
9. The system of claim 6, wherein the electronic processor is further configured to receive status information from the antivirus software installed locally on the user device and presenting at least a portion of the status information within a user interface.
10. A computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by an electronic processor, perform a set of functions, the set of functions comprising:
determining a user device interacting with an infected file detected within a remote file storage system;
determining antivirus software installed locally on the user device;
prompting a user associated with the user device to approve remote initiation of the antivirus software installed locally on the user device; and
remotely initiating the antivirus software installed locally on the user device in response to receiving approval of the remote initiation.
11. The computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein determining the user device interacting with the infected file includes determining the user device uploading the infected file to the remote file storage system or the user device modifying the infected file within the remote file storage system.
12. The computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein determining antivirus software installed locally on the user device includes accessing registration information associated with the user device.
13. The computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein determining antivirus software installed locally on the user device includes receiving information associated with the antivirus software from a synchronization client installed locally on the user device for the remote file storage system.
14. The computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein remotely initiating the antivirus software installed locally on the user device includes generating and transmitting an application programming interface call to the user device.
15. The computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein remotely initiating the antivirus software installed locally on the user device includes generating an application programming interface call based on at least one selected from a group consisting of the antivirus software, the user device, and the infected file and transmit the application programming interface call to the user device.
</claims>
</document>
