<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04W4/38,H04W72/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARLETON UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABU ALHAOL, IBRAHIM
ALKURD, RAWAN
YANIKOMEROGLU, HALIM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69644788
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENABLING WIRELESS NETWORK PERSONALIZATION USING ZONE OF TOLERANCE MODELING AND PREDICTIVE ANALYTICS
</title>

<abstract>
The subject application relates to telecommunication networks and more particularly, to a method and system for managing and allocating wireless network resources to optimize User satisfaction. One aspect of the invention is directed to a system comprising a wireless base station; a user device; and a wireless network connecting said wireless base-station to said user device; said wireless base station being operable: to employ a 'zone of tolerance' to model user satisfaction; and to respond to a request from said user device to access network resources, by allocating network resources based on said 'zone of tolerance' model. Other aspects of the invention are also shown and described including a system and method of allocating network resources based on an automated machine learning model selection and optimization process.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of resource management for wireless network resources, comprising:
establishing a 'zone of tolerance' model for user satisfaction where the range of quality of service (QoS) on a wireless network is divided into a number of discrete QoS levels; and
responding to a user request for network resources, by:
identifying a context of the user request;
determining a predicted satisfaction level based on said identified context;
identifying the lowest of said number of discrete QoS levels necessary to reach the predicted satisfaction level for said user request; and
satisfying the user request by allocating network resources based on said identified lowest of said number of discrete QoS levels.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein QoS comprises at least one metric selected from the group consisting of: data rate, reliability, latency and jitter.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein the context comprises one or more of the parameters: time, day, location, speed, activity, service request arrival, application choice, application service choice, request rate demand, given rate, and D (the difference between desired service and offered service).
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the context parameters are organized into a tree structure.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the context parameters are organized into multiple tree structures, each of said multiple tree structures being directed to a set of users with similar behavioral patterns or personas.
6. The method of claim 1 , wherein the context comprises activity, and activity is predicted using machine learning from data collected using user sensors
7. The method of claim 1 , wherein determining a predicted satisfaction level based on said context further comprises generating a dataset which provides the predicted satisfaction level for a given set of context values.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein generating a dataset which provides the predicted satisfaction level for a given set of context values further comprises:
acquiring context data;
associating the acquired context data with user satisfaction values; and
measuring the correlation between the user satisfaction values and the service being used by the user.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein acquiring context data further comprises:
acquiring context data via monitoring sensors;
aggregating and analyzing collected data; and
predicting missing and future context information.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein said user satisfaction values are obtained by capturing and sensing actual user satisfaction levels using sensors including microphones and cameras.
11. The method of claim 1 where user feedback is used to validate the predicted satisfaction level, error data being fed to the predictive model for relearning.
12. A method of resource scheduling for wireless network resources, comprising:
establishing a'zone of tolerance' model for user satisfaction where the range of quality of service (QoS) on a wireless network is divided into a number of discrete QoS levels; and
responding to multiple user requests for network resources, by:
for each of said multiple user requests, determining a difference, D, between the QoS demanded by the user and the QoS provided by the network;
identifying the lowest of said number of discrete QoS levels necessary to reach the'zone of tolerance' for said user request; and
satisfying the user request by allocating network resources based on said identified lowest of said number of discrete QoS levels.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the step of allocating network resources comprises solving a Multi-Objective Optimization (MOO) problem.
14. A method of resource scheduling for wireless network resources, comprising:
collecting user context data and associating users with predefined personas;
predicting user satisfaction for a given context and persona using machine learning (ML) and big data analytics; and
allocating network resources by optimizing user satisfaction and resource utilization.
15. A method of wireless network resource management comprising:
collecting context data and user satisfaction sensing in real-time;
quantifying and formatting collected data before feeding it to the machine learning algorithm in order to achieve better prediction results;
building a multi-phase machine learning model to predict user satisfaction levels for each user, the machine learning model utilizing the extract persona information by the persona ML model;
performing a multi-objective optimization is designed to ingest real-time data and use the trained ML model to determine the minimum amount of resources required to achieve the targeted satisfaction level; and
measuring the user satisfaction level and compares it with the predicted values by the ML model. If the prediction result is correct, the data sample is feedback to the ML model to continuously train it in real-time and improve the performance as more data samples become available. In contrast, if the result is not correct, the network penalizes the ML model in a process called concept drift.
16. The method of claim 1 , wherein allocating network resources further comprises allocating network resources as a multi-objective decision, based on optimizing resources, revenue, and user satisfaction.
17. The method of claim 1 , wherein allocating network resources further comprises allocating network resources as a Pareto-based multi-objective solution.
18. The method of claim 6, further comprising selecting an optimal machine learning model.
19. A system comprising:
a wireless base station;
a user device operable to communicate with said wireless base station; and
a wireless network for receiving user communications via said wireless base station;
said wireless base station being operable to effect the method of any one of claims 1 to 18.
20. An improvement to a 5G network comprising a layer for micro-managing the resources within a slice, tailoring them to the end user's specific needs and requirements, resulting in greater agility and flexibility.
</claims>
</document>
