<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GM CRUISE HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GARCIA, PAUL
MCCLOSKEY, Jake
ULLMAN, Nadav
MAGNOLI, Michael
COVARRUBIAS, Jose Arturo
BACHANT, Thomas
THIBEAULT, Joseph
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69326710
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SELF-MAINTAINING AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE PROCEDURE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods provide for enabling an autonomous vehicle to automatically and dynamically monitor and maintain itself. The autonomous vehicle can analyze diagnostic data captured by one or more of its sensors. Based on the analysis of the diagnostic data, the autonomous vehicle can determine that it needs maintenance and, based on that determination, send the analysis of the diagnostic data to a routing service. The autonomous vehicle can receive instruction from the routing service to dynamically route the autonomous vehicle in accordance with a maintenance action.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method of selfmaintaining an autonomous vehicle comprising:
analyzing diagnostic data captured by a sensor of the autonomous vehicle;
based on the analysis of the diagnostic data, determining that the autonomous vehicle needs maintenance; and
based on the determination, sending the analysis of the diagnostic data to a routing service and receiving instruction from the routing service to dynamically route the autonomous vehicle in accordance with a maintenance action.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the determination that the autonomous vehicle needs maintenance is based on the analysis of the diagnostic data detecting an operational issue with the autonomous vehicle, wherein the analysis is in accordance with a model of autonomous vehicle operations generated by a fleet of autonomous vehicles.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein a criticality level of an operational issue with the autonomous vehicle is determined based on the model, and wherein the model is continuously updated based on diagnostic data from the fleet.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
classifying an operational issue with the autonomous vehicle at a first criticality level; and
based on the operational issue being within the first criticality level, receiving instruction from the routing service to bring the autonomous vehicle to a stop.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising:
determining, by the sensor, that a passenger is within the autonomous vehicle; and based on the determination, sending a request for a backup service.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: classifying an operational issue with the autonomous vehicle at a second criticality level; and based on the operational issue being within the second criticality level, receiving instruction from the routing service to dynamically drive the autonomous vehicle to a maintenance facility that can service the operation issue when a passenger within the autonomous vehicle has been dropped off.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: classifying an operational issue with the autonomous vehicle at a third criticality level; based on the operational issue being within the third criticality level, receiving confirmation from the routing service that a work order has been placed at a scheduled time with a maintenance facility that can service the operation issue; and receiving instruction from the routing service to dynamically drive the autonomous vehicle to the maintenance facility that can service the operation issue at the scheduled time.
8. A system comprising: one or more sensors of an autonomous vehicle; and a processor for executing instructions stored in memory, wherein execution of the instructions by the processor executes: analyzing diagnostic data captured by the one or more sensors of the autonomous vehicle; based on the analysis of the diagnostic data, determining that the autonomous vehicle needs maintenance; and
based on the determination, sending the analysis of the diagnostic data to a routing service and receiving instruction from the routing service to dynamically route the autonomous vehicle in accordance with a maintenance action.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the determination that the autonomous vehicle needs maintenance is based on the analysis of the diagnostic data detecting an operational issue with the autonomous vehicle, wherein the analysis is in accordance with a model of autonomous vehicle operations generated by a fleet of autonomous vehicles.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein a criticality level of an operational issue with the autonomous vehicle is determined based on the model, and wherein the model is continuously updated based on diagnostic data from the fleet.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein execution of the instructions by the processor further executes:
classifying an operational issue with the autonomous vehicle at a first criticality level; and
based on the operational issue being within the first criticality level, receiving instruction from the routing service to bring the autonomous vehicle to a stop.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein execution of the instructions by the processor further executes:
determining, by the one or more sensors, that a passenger is within the autonomous vehicle; and
based on the determination, sending a request for a backup service.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein execution of the instructions by the processor further executes: classifying an operational issue with the autonomous vehicle at a second criticality level; and based on the operational issue being within the second criticality level, receiving instruction from the routing service to dynamically drive the autonomous vehicle to a maintenance facility that can service the operation issue when a passenger within the autonomous vehicle has been dropped off.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein execution of the instructions by the processor further executes: classifying an operational issue with the autonomous vehicle at a third criticality level; based on the operational issue being within the third criticality level, receiving confirmation from the routing service that a work order has been placed at a scheduled time with a maintenance facility that can service the operation issue; and receiving instruction from the routing service to dynamically drive the autonomous vehicle to the maintenance facility that can service the operation issue at the scheduled time.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions, the instructions, when executed by a computing system, cause the computing system to: analyze diagnostic data captured by a sensor of an autonomous vehicle; based on the analysis of the diagnostic data, determine that the autonomous vehicle needs maintenance; and based on the determination, send the analysis of the diagnostic data to a routing service and receive instruction from the routing service to dynamically route the autonomous vehicle in accordance with a maintenance action.
16. The nontransitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the determination that the autonomous vehicle needs maintenance is based on the analysis of the diagnostic data detecting an operational issue with the autonomous vehicle, wherein the analysis is in accordance with a model of autonomous vehicle operations generated by a fleet of autonomous vehicles.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein a criticality level of an operational issue with the autonomous vehicle is determined based on the model, and wherein the model is continuously updated based on diagnostic data from the fleet.
18. The nontransitory computer readable medium of claim 15, the instructions further causing the computing system to:
classify an operational issue with the autonomous vehicle at a first criticality level; and
based on the operational issue being within the first criticality level, receive instruction from the routing service to bring the autonomous vehicle to a stop;
determine, by the sensor, that a passenger is within the autonomous vehicle; and based on the determination, send a request for a backup service.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, the instructions further causing the computing system to: classify an operational issue with the autonomous vehicle at a second criticality level; and based on the operational issue being within the second criticality level, receive instruction from the routing service to dynamically drive the autonomous vehicle to a maintenance facility that can service the operation issue when a passenger within the autonomous vehicle has been dropped off.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, the instructions further causing the computing system to: classify an operational issue with the autonomous vehicle at a third criticality level; based on the operational issue being within the third criticality level, receive confirmation from the routing service that a work order has been placed at a scheduled time with a maintenance facility that can service the operation issue; and receive instruction from the routing service to dynamically drive the autonomous vehicle to the maintenance facility that can service the operation issue at the scheduled time.
</claims>
</document>
