<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SCIENCELOGIC, INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
LUEBKE, Mathew
SHERWOOD, Jeremy
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74061931
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR THE COLLECTION, GENERATION, AND DISTRIBUTION OF SYNTHETIC METRICS FOR COMPUTER SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A system defines, creates, uses, and distributes information about other entities by collecting network information, recombining and synthesizing new network metrics from the collected network information, and then publishing one or more synthetic metrics datum describing the operation of the synthetic device, using a facading processing system. The technology herein has applications e.g., in the areas of network and computer systems management.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A processing device characterized by:
a processor;
a network interface operably connected to the processor; and
a memory operatively coupled to the processor, the memory storing (a) a first specification template that specifies the processing device configuration in order to adapt the processing device to provide specified synthetic device metric values in accordance with a specification contained within the first specification template, and (b) a second specification template that defines a processing device configuration to facade as a virtualized synthetic device;
the processor being configured to generate one or more synthetic device metrics values attributable to the virtualized synthetic device constructed in accordance with instructions provided by the first specification template,
the processor being further configured to publish, via the network interface, a facade of the virtualized synthetic device,
wherein the published facade of the virtualized synthetic device reports one or more of the generated synthetic device metric values.
2. The processing device of claim 1, further characterized by a second interface, which is used by the processor to collect one or more external datum points as collected metric values, wherein the second interface is not connected to a network or comprises a communications interface or the network interface.
3. The processing device of any preceding claim, wherein the first specification template comprises a processing device configuration template, wherein the configuration template configures the processing device to operate in order to collect one or more metric values using a network interface operably connected to a network attached device, producing at least one network collected metric value; and/or to collect one or more metric values using an interface operably connected to a non-network connected device, producing at least one non network collected metric value.
4. The processing device of claim 3 , wherein the processing device operates to periodically collect one or more collected metric values in accordance with a specification in the first specification template.
5. The processing device of claim 4, wherein the first specification template specifies the processing device operation to generate one or more synthetic metric values based upon at least one collected metric value and a synthetic metric generation specification that is part of the first specification template.
6. The processing device of any preceding claim, wherein the first specification template and/or the second specification template is loaded into the processing device from an external source.
7. The processing device of any preceding claim, wherein the second specification template configures the processing device as a facaded network device in accordance with the specifications in the second specification template; and/or the second specification template specifies the mapping of one or more synthetic metric values provided by the processing device to the published facade.
8. The processing device of any preceding claim, wherein the processor creates at least one synthetic metric value in accordance with a specification of the first specification template prior to providing the at least one synthetic metric value.
9. A processing method characterized by:
storing (a) a first specification template that specifies the processing device configuration in order to adapt the processing device to provide specified synthetic device metric values in accordance with a specification contained within the first specification template, and (b) a second specification template that defines a configuration to facade as a virtualized synthetic device;
generating one or more synthetic device metrics values attributable to the virtualized synthetic device constructed in accordance with instructions provided by the first specification template; and
publishing, via a network interface, a facade of the virtualized synthetic device that reports one or more of the generated synthetic device metric values.
10. The method of claim 9, further characterized by using a second interface to collect one or more external datum points as collected metric values.
11. The method of any of preceding claims 9-10, where the second interface is not connected to a network or comprises a communications interface or the network interface.
12. The method of any of preceding claims 9- 1 1 , where the first specification template comprises a processing device configuration template, and further including using the configuration template to configure the processing device to operate in order to collect one or more metric values using a network interface operably connected to a network attached device, to produce at least one network collected metric value; and/or using the configuration template configure collection of one or more metric values with an interface operably connected to a non-network connected device, to produce at least one non-network collected metric value.
13. The method of claim 12, further characterized by periodically collecting one or more collected metric values in accordance with a specification in the first specification template.
14. The method of any of preceding claims 9- 13 , further characterized by specifying, with the first specification template, processing device operation to generate one or more synthetic metric values based upon at least one collected metric value and a synthetic metric generation specification that is part of the first specification template.
15. The method of any of preceding claims 9- 14, further characterized by loading the first and/or second specification template into the processing device from an external source.
16. The method of any of preceding claims 9- 15 , further characterized by configuring, based on the second specification template, a facaded network device in accordance with the specifications in the second specification template; and/or specifying, with the second specification template, the mapping of one or more synthetic metric values provided by the processing device to the published facade.
17. The method of any of preceding claims 9- 16, further characterized by generating at least one synthetic metric value in accordance with a specification of the first specification template prior to providing the at least one synthetic metric value.
18. A method of operating a facaded processing device characterized by:
collecting, in accordance with a template comprising a first collection specification, one or more collected metric values;
generating, in accordance with a template comprising a first generation template, one or more synthetic metric values, and
publishing, in accordance with a facading specification and using the one or more collected metric values, one or more synthetic metric values.
19. A method of operating a facaded processing device of claim 18, wherein the synthetic metric value generating further comprises combining one or more collected metric values to produce at least one synthetic metric value.
20. A method of operating a facaded processing device of any of preceding claims 18- 19 , wherein the synthetic metric value generating further comprises combining a collected metric value with a previously generated synthetic metric value.
21. A method of operating a facaded processing device of any of preceding claims 18-
20, wherein collecting the collected metric values comprises collecting from at least one of a network connected device and a non-network connected device.
22. A method of operating a facaded processing device of any of preceding claims 18-
21 , further characterized by collecting the collected metric values only once.
23. A method of operating a facaded processing device of any of preceding claims 18-
22, further characterized by repeatedly collecting the collected metric values to produce a set of time series collected values.
24. A virtualized synthetic device characterized by:
a processor;
a network interface operably connected to the processor; and
a memory operatively coupled to the processor, the memory storing (a) a first specification defining synthetic device metric values, and (b) a second specification defining a virtualized synthetic device facade;
the processor being configured to:
(a) generate one or more synthetic device metric values attributable to the virtualized synthetic device in accordance with the first specification, and
(b) present, via the network interface, a facade of the virtualized synthetic device based on the second specification, the presented facade reporting the generated one or more synthetic device metric values.
</claims>
</document>
