<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04Q1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LINDSTRÖM, DANIEL
INAM, RAFIA
ELEFTHERIADIS, LACKIS
SHAIKH, JUNAID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63592741
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR AUTOMATICALLY PROTECTING RADIO NETWORK EQUIPMENT IN EXTREME ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems automatically protect radio network equipment in extreme weather conditions such as sand-storms or snow-storms. A pair of phase-shift material grids having different orientations is installed at an air intake of the radio network equipment. One of the grids is powered to open or close the air intake according to a current amount of air-carried particles entering the radio network equipment and a temperature inside the radio network equipment. The current amount of air-carried particles entering the radio network equipment may be detected by a piezoelectric sensor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method (100) for automatically protecting radio network equipment,
RNE (200), in extreme weather conditions, the method comprising:
installing (S1 10), at an air intake of the RNE, a sensor (210) configured to detect a current amount of air-carried particles entering the RNE, and a pair of phase-shift material grids (220) having different orientations and configured to open or close the air intake; and
automatically powering (120) one grid of the phase-shift material grids (220) to open or close the air intake according to the current amount of air-carried particles and a temperature inside the RNE.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the sensor is a piezoelectric sensor.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein, when power is applied to a first grid of the pair no power is injected into a second grid of the pair, and, when power is applied to the second grid no power is injected into the first grid.
4. The method of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein one grid of the pair is perpendicular to the second grid and isolated from the second grid so as to prevent power and heat transfer there-between.
5. The method of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the powering one of the pair of phase-shift material grids causes a 20-50K temperature increase thereof.
6. The method of any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the powering one of the phase-shift material grids causes the air intake to open or to close with 2-5 mm.
7. The method of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the RIME includes a radio base station, RBS, and the method further comprises:
reducing data traffic in the RBS when the current amount of air-carried particles detected by the sensor triggers closing of the air intake.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the data traffic is reduced when temperature inside the RBS exceeds a predetermined threshold.
9. The method of claim 7 or 8, wherein the data traffic is reduced gradually.
10. The method any of claims 1 to 9, further comprising:
training a controller to perform the automatically powering using machine learning techniques.
1 1 . The method any of claims 1 to 10, further comprising: training a controller using historic data to optimize the automatically powering using a predictive model,
wherein the controller receives weather information for an area where the RNE is deployed to apply the predictive model.
12. The method of any of claims 1 to 1 1 , wherein the RNE includes a radio base station, RBS, and, a battery backup unit, BBU, each of which has a ventilation opening whose opening state is automatically controlled according to the current amount of air-carried particles detected by the sensor and the temperature.
13. A system (200) for automatically protecting radio network equipment,
RNE, in extreme weather conditions, the system comprising:
a sensor (210) configured to detect a current amount of air-carried particles entering the RNE;
a temperature sensor configured to measure temperature inside the RNE;
a pair phase-shift material grids (220) having different orientations, configured and mounted to open or close an air intake of the RNE; and
a controller (230) connected to the sensor and to the pair of phase-shift material grids, the controller being configured to automatically supply power to one of the phaseshift material grids according to the current amount of air-carried particles and the temperature.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the sensor is a piezoelectric sensor.
15. The system of claim 13 or 14, wherein, when power is applied to a first grid of the pair no power is injected into a second grid of the pair, and, when power is applied to the second grid no power is injected into the first grid.
16. The system of any of claims 13 to 15, wherein one grid of the pair is perpendicular to the second grid and isolated from the second grid so as to prevent power and heat transfer there-between.
17. The system of any of claims 13 to 16, wherein powering one of the pair of phase-shift material grids causes a 20-50K temperature increase thereof.
18. The system of any of claims 13 to 17, wherein powering one of the phaseshift material grids causes the air intake to open or to close with 2-5 mm.
19. The system of any of claims 13 to 18, wherein the RIME includes a radio base station, RBS, and the controller is further configured to trigger reducing data traffic in the RBS when the current amount of air-carried particles detected by the sensor causes closing of the air intake.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the data traffic is reduced when temperature inside the RBS exceeds a predetermined threshold.
21 . The system of claim 19 or 20, wherein the data traffic is reduced
gradually.
22. The system of any of claims 13 to 21 , wherein the controller is trained using machine learning techniques to automatically supply power to one of the phaseshift material grids according to the current amount of air-carried particles and the temperature.
23. The system of any of claims 13 to 22, wherein the controller is trained using historic data to optimize the automatically powering using a predictive model and receives weather information for an area where the RNE is deployed to apply the predictive model.
24. An apparatus (1000) including hardware and software modules for automatically protecting radio network equipment, RNE, in extreme weather conditions, the apparatus comprising:
a first module (1010) configured to receive information about a current amount of air-carried particles entering the RBS and temperature inside the RNE; and a second module (1020) configured to generate commands for powering one of a pair of phase-shift material grids according to the current amount of air-carried particles and the temperature, the phase-shift material grids having different orientations and being placed and configured to open or close an air intake of the RBS.
25. A non-transitory computer readable medium (840) storing executable codes which when executed by a processor make the processor perform a method for automatically protecting a radio network equipment, RNE, in extreme weather conditions, the method (900) comprising:
receiving (S910) information about a current amount of air-carried particles entering the RBS and temperature inside the RNE; and
sending (S920) commands for powering one of a pair of phase-shift material grids according to the current amount of air-carried particles and the temperature, the phase-shift material grids having different orientations and being placed and configured to open or close an air intake of the RBS.
</claims>
</document>
