<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N1/36,G06F3/01,G08B6/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUTUREWEI TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
XU JUN
HUANG TAO
LIU FEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66530470
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SPATIAL-TEMPORAL HAPTIC STIMULATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure relates to technology for haptic stimulation. A haptic interface device comprises an array comprising haptic stimulation elements configured to generate a stimulation pattern. The haptic interface device comprises a controller configured to continually propagate the stimulation pattern on a user's skin, including repeatedly eliminate a portion of a first end of the stimulation pattern and replace the eliminated portion with a new portion at a second end of the stimulation pattern.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A haptic interface device, comprising:
an array comprising haptic stimulation elements configured to generate a stimulation pattern; and
a controller configured to continually propagate the stimulation pattern on a user's skin, including repeatedly eliminate a portion of a first end of the stimulation pattern and replace the eliminated portion with a new portion at a second end of the stimulation pattern.
2. The haptic interface device of claim 1 , wherein the controller is configured to propagate the stimulation pattern at a constant rate on the user's skin.
3. The haptic interface device of claim 2, wherein the array comprises rows and columns of the haptic stimulation elements, the controller is configured to propagate the stimulation pattern at the same rate for each row.
4. The haptic interface device of claim 2, wherein the array comprises rows and columns of the haptic stimulation elements, the controller is configured to propagate the stimulation pattern at a different rate for different rows.
5. The haptic interface device of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the controller is configured to present two partial units of information at the same time in the stimulation pattern.
6. The haptic interface device of any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the controller is configured to present a portion of a first character and a portion of a second character in the stimulation pattern at the same time.
7. The haptic interface device of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the controller is configured to present a portion of a first word and a portion of a second word in the stimulation pattern at the same time. 8. The haptic interface device of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the controller is configured to move the array across the user's skin in order to propagate the stimulation pattern on the user's skin.
9. The haptic interface device any of claims 1 to 8, wherein the array comprising haptic stimulation elements comprises a ring of haptic stimulation elements, wherein the controller is configured to rotate the array across the user's skin in order to propagate the stimulation pattern on the user's skin.
10. The haptic interface device of any of claims 1 to 9, wherein the array comprising haptic stimulation elements comprises a straight line of haptic stimulation elements, wherein the controller is configured to move the straight line of haptic stimulation elements across the user's skin in order to propagate the stimulation pattern on the user's skin.
11. The haptic interface device of any of claims 1 to 10, wherein the controller is configured to modify the stimulation pattern over time based on a long short-term memory model.
12. The haptic interface device of any of claims 1 to 11 , wherein the controller is configured to attenuate portions of the stimulation pattern over time.
13. The haptic interface device of any of claims 1 to 12, wherein the controller is configured to represent a three-dimensional object in the array comprising haptic stimulation elements.
14. The haptic interface device of any of claims 1 to 12, wherein the controller is configured to spatially represent a first dimension and a second dimension of a three-dimensional object in the array and temporally represent a third dimension of the three-dimensional object in the array. 15. The haptic interface device of claim 14, wherein the controller is configured to control a rate at which the stimulation pattern propagates in different regions of the array in order to temporally represent the third dimension of the three-dimensional object.
16. The haptic interface device of any of claims 1 to 15, wherein the controller is configured to represent velocity of an object in the array comprising haptic stimulation elements by the rate at which the stimulation pattern is propagated.
17. A method of providing a haptic stimulation interface, the method comprising: generating a stimulation pattern with an array comprising haptic stimulation elements; and
continually propagating the stimulation pattern on a user's skin, including repeatedly eliminating a portion of a first end of the stimulation pattern and replacing the eliminated portion with a new portion at a second end of the stimulation pattern.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein continually propagating the stimulation pattern comprises:
propagating the stimulation pattern at a constant rate on the user's skin.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein continually propagating the stimulation pattern comprises:
propagating the stimulation pattern at the same rate for each of row in the array.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein continually propagating the stimulation pattern comprises:
propagating the stimulation pattern at a different rate for different rows in the array.
21. The method of any of claims 16 to 20, wherein continually propagating the stimulation pattern comprises:
presenting two partial units of information at the same time in the stimulation pattern.
22. The method of any of claims 16 to 21 , wherein continually propagating the stimulation pattern comprises:
presenting a portion of a first character and a portion of a second character in the stimulation pattern at the same time.
23. The method of any of claims 16 to 22, wherein continually propagating the stimulation pattern comprises:
presenting a portion of a first word and a portion of a second word in the stimulation pattern at the same time.
24. The method of any of claims 16 to 23, further comprising:
moving the array comprising haptic stimulation elements over the user's skin in order to propagate the stimulation pattern on the user's skin.
25. The method of any of claims 16 to 23, further comprising:
rotating the array comprising haptic stimulation elements across the user's skin in order to propagate the stimulation pattern on the user's skin.
26. The method of any of claims 16 to 25, further comprising modifying the stimulation pattern over time based on a long short-term memory model.
27. The method of any of claims 16 to 26, further comprising:
attenuating portions of the stimulation pattern over time.
28. The method of any of claims 16 to 27, wherein continually propagating the stimulation pattern comprises:
representing a three-dimensional object in the stimulation pattern.
29. The method of any of claims 16 to 27, wherein continually propagating the stimulation pattern comprises:
spatially representing a first dimension and a second dimension of a threedimensional object in the array; and
temporally representing a third dimension of the three-dimensional object in the array.
30. The method of claim 29, further comprising:
controlling a rate at which the stimulation pattern propagates in different regions of the array in order to temporally represent the third dimension of the threedimensional object.
31. The method of any of claims 16 to 30, wherein continually propagating the stimulation pattern comprises:
representing velocity of an object in the array comprising haptic stimulation elements by a rate at which the stimulation pattern is propagated.
32. A haptic stimulation device comprising:
a haptic stimulation interface comprising an array of tactile pixels configured to stimulate receptors in skin of a user with a stimulation pattern;
a receiver configured to receive information to present in the haptic
stimulation interface; and
a processor configured to continually propagate the stimulation pattern on the user's skin in order to present the information, including eliminate a portion of a first end of the stimulation pattern and replace the eliminated portion with a new portion at a second end of the stimulation pattern.
33. The haptic stimulation device of claim 32, wherein the processor is configured to propagate the stimulation pattern at a constant rate on the user's skin.
34. The haptic stimulation device of claim 33, wherein the array comprises rows and columns of the tactile pixels, the processor is configured to propagate the stimulation pattern at the same rate for each row.
35. The haptic stimulation device of claim 33, wherein the array comprises rows and columns of the tactile pixels, the processor is configured to propagate the stimulation pattern at a different rate for different rows.
36. The haptic stimulation device of any of claims 30 to 35, wherein the processor is configured to present two partial units of information at the same time in the stimulation pattern.
37. The haptic stimulation device of any of claims 30 to 36, wherein the processor is configured to present a portion of a first character and a portion of a second character in the stimulation pattern at the same time.
38. The haptic stimulation device of any of claims 30 to 37, wherein the processor is configured to present a portion of a first word and a portion of a second word in the stimulation pattern at the same time.
39. The haptic stimulation device of any of claims 30 to 38, wherein the processor is configured to move the array of tactile pixels over the user's skin in order to continually propagate the stimulation pattern on the user's skin.
40. The haptic stimulation device any of claims 30 to 39, wherein the array of tactile pixels comprises a ring of tactile pixels, wherein the processor is configured to rotate the ring of tactile pixels across the user's skin in order to continually propagate the stimulation pattern on the user's skin.
41. The haptic stimulation device of any of claims 30 to 40, wherein the array of tactile pixels comprises a straight line of tactile pixels, wherein the processor is configured to move the straight line of tactile pixels across the user's skin in order to continually propagate the stimulation pattern on the user's skin.
42. The haptic stimulation device of any of claims 30 to 41 , wherein the processor is configured to modify the stimulation pattern over time based on a long short-term memory model. 43. The haptic stimulation device of any of claims 30 to 42, wherein the processor is configured to attenuate portions of the stimulation pattern over time.
44. The haptic stimulation device of any of claims 30 to 43, wherein the processor is configured to represent a three-dimensional object in the array of tactile pixels.
45. The haptic stimulation device of any of claims 30 to 44, wherein the processor is configured to spatially represent a first dimension and a second dimension of a three-dimensional object in the array and temporally represent a third dimension of the three-dimensional object in the array.
46. The haptic stimulation device of claim 45, wherein the processor is configured to control a rate at which the stimulation pattern propagates in different regions of the array in order to temporally represent the third dimension of the three-dimensional object.
47. The haptic stimulation device of any of claims 30 to 46, wherein the processor is configured to represent velocity of an object in the array of tactile pixels by the rate at which the stimulation pattern is propagated.
</claims>
</document>
