<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B29C35/08,B29C64/129,B29C64/282
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HOLO
</assignee>

<inventors>
GREENE, RICHARD M.
LIN, PIERRE
POMEROY, JONATHAN
QUINONEZ, CARLO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71128881
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SENSORS FOR THREE-DIMENSIONAL PRINTING SYSTEMS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides methods and systems for printing a three-dimensional (3D) object. The methods may comprise providing, adjacent to a build surface, a film comprising a polymeric precursor. A sensor may be used to determine a profile of the film. The profile may be indicative of a quality of the film. If the profile meets a quality threshold, at least a portion of the film may be exposed to light to initiate formation of a polymeric material from the polymeric precursor, thereby printing at least a portion of the 3D object.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for printing a three-dimensional (3D) obj ect, comprising:
(a) providing, adjacent to a build surface, a film comprising a polymeric precursor;
(b) using a sensor to determine a profile of said film, which profile is indicative of a quality of said film;
(c) determining if said profile meets a quality threshold; and
(d) subsequent to (c), (1) if said profile meets a quality threshold, using a light source to expose at least a portion of said film to light to initiate formation of a polymeric material from said polymeric precursor, thereby printing at least a portion of said 3D object, or (2) if said profile does not meet said quality threshold, adjusting or redepositing said film.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein (b) further comprises (i) exposing said film to an
additional light and (ii) using said sensor to detect at least a portion of said additional light that is transmitted through said film.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein said light has a first wavelength and said additional light has a second wavelength, wherein said second wavelength is different than said first wavelength.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein said light and said additional light are provided by a light source.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein said light is provided by a light source and said
additional light is provided by an additional light source.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising using an optical diffuser, located adjacent to said build surface and away from said film, to diffuse said additional light.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to (c), using said profile to identify a variation in said film with respect to a reference.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein said quality threshold is a threshold of said variation in said film with respect to said reference.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said profile is an optical profile.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein said optical profile is a transmittance profile.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein said profile is a two-dimensional (2D) profile.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising using said profile to determine a crosssectional dimension of said film.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein said profile is a thickness profile of said film.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein, in (a), said film further comprises a plurality of particles, and wherein said profile is a density profile of said plurality of particles in said film.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein, in (a), said polymeric precursor encapsulates said
plurality of particles.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein said plurality of particles comprises at least one metal particle, at least one ceramic particle, or a combination thereof.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein (d)(1) is performed with a build head in contact with said film, and wherein, subsequent to (d)(1), said build head is moved away from said build surface.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising, subsequent to (d)(1), using said sensor to measure an additional profile of said film adjacent to said build surface.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein said additional profile is a negative profile of said at least said portion of said 3D object.
20. The method of claim 18, further comprising, subsequent to (d)(1), providing an additional film adjacent to said build surface and using said sensor to determine a profile of said additional film, which profile is indicative of a quality of said additional film.
21. The method of claim 1, wherein (a) further comprises providing a deposition head
adjacent to said build surface and moving said deposition head across said build surface to deposit said film adjacent to said build surface.
22. The method of claim 1, wherein said build surface comprises a print window, and
wherein said film is provided adjacent to said print window.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein, in (d)(1), said light is directed through said print
window to said film to initiate formation of said polymeric material from said polymeric precursor.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein said film further comprises (i) a photoinitiator that initiates formation of said polymeric material from said polymeric precursor away from said print window, and (ii) a photoinhibitor that inhibits formation of said polymeric material from said polymeric precursor adjacent to said print window.
25. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to (a), receiving or generating a
computer model of said 3D object, wherein said at least said portion of said 3D object is in accordance to said computer model of said 3D object.
26. The method of claim 1, wherein said build surface is part of a vat that retains said film.
27. The method of claim 1, wherein said build surface is part of an open platform that retains said film.
28. The method of claim 1, wherein redepositing said film comprises removing at least a portion of said film from said build surface and depositing an additional film adjacent to said build surface.
29. The method of claim 1, wherein adjusting said film comprises redistributing said film.
30. A system for printing a three-dimensional (3D) object, comprising:
a build surface configured to retain a film comprising a polymeric precursor; a sensor in sensing communication with said build surface;
a light source in optical communication with said build surface, wherein said light source is configured to provide light; and
a controller comprising a circuit operatively coupled to said sensor and said light source, wherein said controller is configured to (i) use said sensor to determine a profile of said film, which profile is indicative of a quality of said film, (ii) determine if said profile meets a quality threshold, and (iii) subsequent to (ii), (1) if said profile meets a quality threshold, direct said light source to expose at least a portion of said film to said light to initiate formation of a polymeric material from said polymeric precursor, thereby printing at least a portion of said 3D object, or (2) if said profile does not meet said quality threshold, direct said film to be adjusted or redeposited.
31. The system of claim 30, wherein said controller is further configured to (i) expose said film to an additional light and (ii) use said sensor to detect at least a portion of said additional light that is transmitted through said film.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein said light has a first wavelength and said additional light has a second wavelength, wherein said second wavelength is different than said first wavelength.
33. The system of claim 31, wherein said light source is configured to provide said additional light.
34. The system of claim 31, further comprising an additional light source configured to
provide said additional light.
35. The system of claim 31, further comprising an optical diffuser located adjacent to said build surface and away from said film, wherein said optical diffuser is configured to diffuse said additional light.
36. The system of claim 30, wherein during use, said film further comprises a plurality of particles.
37. The system of claim 36, wherein during use, said polymeric precursor encapsulates said plurality of particles.
38. The system of claim 36, wherein during use, said plurality of particles comprises at least one metal particle, at least one ceramic particle, or a combination thereof.
39. The system of claim 30, further comprising a build head configured to move relative to said build surface and hold said at least said portion of said 3D object.
40. The system of claim 30, further comprising a deposition head adjacent to said build surface and configured to move across said build surface to deposit said film adjacent to said build surface.
41. The system of claim 30, wherein said build surface comprises a print window configured to retain said film.
42. The system of claim 41, wherein during use, said film further comprises (i) a
photoinitiator that initiates formation of said polymeric material from said polymeric precursor away from said print window, and (ii) a photoinhibitor that inhibits formation of said polymeric material from said polymeric precursor adjacent to said print window.
43. The system of claim 30, wherein said build surface is part of a vat that is configured to retain said film.
44. The system of claim 30, wherein said build surface is part of an open platform that is configured to retain said film.
</claims>
</document>
