<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01G9/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MJNN
</assignee>

<inventors>
CUSON, MARK
FLYNN, MICHAEL PETER
MATERA, MATTHEW JAMES
JENKINS, MERRITT JONATHAN
HASOON, TAMARA TAHIR
CALLAHAN, Travis
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70857249
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TRANSPLANTER SYSTEMS FOR AUTOMATED CONTROLLED GROWTH ENVIRONMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A plug gripper (2406) for a plug having a top surface area. The plug gripper (2406) comprises a base (2602); an actuator (2606) attached to the base (2602) and having a first end, the actuator (2606) operative to move the first end along a first direction from a retracted position to an extended position; first and second opposing gripper arms (2608a, 2608b) operably attached to the first end of the actuator (2606) and extending substantially parallel the first direction; and a stripper plate (2612) extending between the first and second gripper arms (2608a, 2608b) and in a perpendicular orientation relative to the first direction. The stripper plate (2612) is configured to cover substantially the top surface area of the plug.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A plug gripper for a plug, the plug having a top surface area, comprising: a base; an actuator attached to the base and having a first end, the actuator operative to move the first end along a first direction from a retracted position to an extended position; first and second opposing gripper arms operably attached to the first end of the actuator and extending substantially parallel the first direction; a stripper plate extending between the first and second gripper arms and in a perpendicular orientation relative to the first direction, wherein the stripper plate covers substantially the top surface area of the plug.
2. The plug gripper of claim 1 wherein the stripper plate comprises first and second slots, and wherein the first opposing gripper arm extends through the first slot and the second opposing gripper arm extends through the second slot.
3. The plug gripper of claim 1 further comprising first and second bracket arms extending between the base and opposing lateral sides of the stripper plate.
4. The plug gripper of claim 3 wherein the first and second bracket arms are configured to contact and guide the gripper arms as the move relative to the stripper plate.
5. The plug gripper of claim 1 wherein the stripper plate is u-shaped, having a notch in the central region thereof.
6. The plug gripper of claim 1 wherein each of the first and second opposing gripper arms comprises one or more prongs.
7. The plug gripper of claim 1 further comprising an extension member attached to the base and the stripper plate, the extension member holding the stripper plate at a distance from the base.
8. The plug gripper of claim 1 wherein the actuator is a linear actuator.
9. The plug gripper of claim 8 wherein the linear actuator is a pneumatic actuator.
10. A plug gripper for a plug, the plug having a top surface area, comprising: a base; an actuator attached to the base and having a first end, the actuator operative to move the first end along a first direction from a retracted position to an extended position; first and second opposing gripper arms operably attached to the base and extending substantially parallel to the first direction; a stripper plate, attached to the actuator, extending between the first and second gripper arms and in a perpendicular orientation relative to the first direction, wherein the stripper plate comprises first and second slots through with the first and second gripper arms respectively extend; wherein movement of the actuator from the extended position to the retracted position causes the first and second opposing gripper arms to move inwardly toward each other.
11. A transplanter for injecting plugs at non-perpendicular angles relative to an injection plane, comprising a carriage; one or more plug grippers, wherein each plug gripper is attached to the carriage and rotatable about an axis from a first angular orientation to a second angular orientation; a first actuator operably attached the one or more plug grippers and operative to rotate each of the one or more plug grippers about a respective axis from the first angular orientation to the second angular orientation; a second actuator attached to the carriage and operative to position the plurality of plug grippers proximal to an injection plane and move the carriage along a path having the second angular orientation relative to the injection plane, wherein the injection plane is defined by a surface associated with a container that includes one or more plug holders having the second angular orientation relative to the injection plane; and a control system operative to control the first and second actuators to effect transplant operations.
12. The transplanter of claim 11 wherein the second actuator comprises a robotic arm.
13. The transplanter of claim 11 wherein the first angular orientation is perpendicular to the injection plane, and the second angular orientation is different from the first angular orientation.
14. The transplanter of claim 11 wherein the second angular orientation is 45 degrees relative to the injection plane.
15. The transplanter of claim 11 wherein the substrate is a grow tower.
16. The transplanter of claim 15 wherein the grow tower comprises a first plurality of plug holders along the injection plane defined by a first face of the grow tower and a second plurality of plug holders along a second injection plane defined by a second face of the grow tower; and wherein the control system is operative to cause the second actuator to move the plug grippers proximal to both the first and second injection plane during transplant operations.
17. The transplanter of claim 11 wherein the first actuator comprises a common bar slidably attached to the carriage and each of the plug grippers, and a linear actuator attached to the bar, wherein movement of the linear actuator causes the bar to rotate the plug grippers about the respective axes.
18. The transplanter of claim 11 wherein each plug gripper comprises a base; an actuator attached to the base and having a first end, the actuator operative to move the first end along a first direction from a retracted position to an extended position; first and second opposing gripper arms operably attached to the first end of the actuator and extending substantially parallel the first direction; a stripper plate extending between the first and second gripper arms and in a perpendicular orientation relative to the first direction.
19. A transplanter, comprising a track for guiding a grow tower in a horizontal orientation along a lower face thereof, wherein the grow tower comprises plug holders along at least one lateral side thereof; an infeed mechanism operative to transfer the grow tower onto the track; a transplanter assembly comprising a carriage, one or more plug grippers attached to the carriage, and one or more actuators operative to cause the plug grippers to inject plugs into the plug holders of the grow tower; and an outfeed mechanism operative to transfer the grow tower from the track.
20. The transplanter of claim 19 further comprising a plug tray conveyor operative to convey plug trays to an operating envelope of the transplanter assembly.
21. The transplanter of claim 19 wherein the grow tower comprises plug holders along opposing lateral sides; and wherein the one or more actuators are operative to inject plugs into the plug holders on both opposing lateral sides of the grow tower.
22. The transplanter of claim 19 wherein the plug holders of the grow tower are oriented at a first, non-perpendicular angle relative to the lateral side; and wherein each plug gripper is attached to the carriage and rotatable about an axis from a second angle to the first angle; and wherein the one or more actuators comprise a first actuator operably attached the one or more plug grippers and operative to rotate each of the one or more plug grippers about a respective axis from the second angle to the first angle; and a second actuator attached to the carriage and operative to position the plurality of plug grippers proximal to at least one of the lateral sides of the grow tower and move the carriage along a path having the first angle relative to the lateral side.
23. The transplanter of claim 22 wherein the second actuator comprises a robotic arm.
24. The transplanter of claim 19 wherein each plug gripper comprises a base; an actuator attached to the base and having a first end, the actuator operative to move the first end along a first direction from a retracted position to an extended position; first and second opposing gripper arms operably attached to the first end of the actuator and extending substantially parallel the first direction; and a stripper plate extending between the first and second gripper arms and in a perpendicular orientation relative to the first direction.
</claims>
</document>
