<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/04,G06Q40/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU JIN
SIMHON, ERAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68835221
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HIERARCHICAL LOCAL MODEL FOR SOCIAL DETERMINANTS OF HEALTH INDEX PREDICTION
</title>

<abstract>
A method for training a hierarchical machine learning model that produces a social determinants of health (SDoH) index, including: receiving a description of a geographic area of interest made up of a set of first geographic areas having a first geographic level; determining an area of interest similarity score for each of a plurality of geographic areas having the first geographic hierarchy outside the geographic area of interest; determining an optimal hierarchical machine learning model by minimizing a performance metric based upon the determined area of interest similarity scores for a set of SDoH features by repeating the steps of: determining a training set of data based upon the determined area of interest similarity scores; training the hierarchical machine learning model using the determined training set of data; and calculating the performance metric for the trained model based upon the test set.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for training a hierarchical machine learning model that produces a social determinants of health (SDoH) index, comprising:
receiving a description of a geographic area of interest made up of a set of first geographic areas having a first geographic level;
determining an area of interest similarity score for each of a plurality of geographic areas having the first geographic hierarchy outside the geographic area of interest;
determining an optimal hierarchical machine learning model by minimizing a performance metric based upon the determined area of interest similarity scores for a set of SDoH features by repeating the steps of:
determining a training set of data based upon the determined area of interest similarity scores;
training the hierarchical machine learning model using the determined training set of data; and
calculating the performance metric for the trained model based upon the test data set.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the optimal machine learning module is configured to produce the SDoH index based upon the SDoH features for a geographic area having a second geographic level, wherein the second geographic level is less than the first geographic level.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the area of interest similarity score is an average of the similarity scores between each of the set of first geographic areas and a geographic area outside the geographic area of interest.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the area of interest similarity score is based upon the distance between the geographic area outside the geographic area of interest and the geographic areas in the set of first geographic areas, the difference of non-SDoH features between the geographic area outside the geographic area of interest and the geographic areas in the set of first geographic areas, and the difference in health outcomes between the geographic area outside the geographic area of interest and the geographic areas in the set of first geographic areas.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining a training set of data based upon the determined area of interest similarity scores includes selecting the M areas outside the geographic area of interesting having the highest area of interest similarity scores, wherein M is an integer.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the value of M changes between iterations of determining a training set of data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the performance parameter is mean square error on the test data set.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein training the hierarchical machine learning model uses Tasso regression.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein training the hierarchical machine learning model includes feature selection.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the hierarchical machine learning model calculates a sub heath score for each of the SDoH categories and the SDoH index is a weighted sum of the sub health scores for each of the SDoH categories.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein training the hierarchical machine learning model includes learning the weights used in the weighted sum.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising calculating the SDoH index based upon the SDoH features for a geographic area having a second geographic level, wherein the second geographic level is less than the first geographic level.
13. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium encoded with instructions for training a hierarchical machine learning model that produces a social determinants of health (SDoH) index, comprising:
instructions for receiving a description of a geographic area of interest made up of a set of first geographic areas having a first geographic level;
instructions for determining an area of interest similarity score for each of a plurality of geographic areas having the first geographic hierarchy outside the geographic area of interest;
instructions for determining an optimal hierarchical machine learning model by minimizing a performance metric based upon the determined area of interest similarity scores for a set of SDoH features by repeating the instructions for:
determining a training set of data based upon the determined area of interest similarity scores;
training the hierarchical machine learning model using the determined training set of data; and calculating the performance metric for the trained model based upon the test data set.
14. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the optimal machine learning module is configured to produce the SDoH index based upon the SDoH features for a geographic area having a second geographic level, wherein the second geographic level is less than the first geographic level.
15. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the area of interest similarity score is an average of the similarity scores between each of the set of first geographic areas and a geographic area outside the geographic area of interest.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the area of interest similarity score is based upon the distance between the geographic area outside the geographic area of interest and the geographic areas in the set of first geographic areas, the difference of nonSDoH features between the geographic area outside the geographic area of interest and the geographic areas in the set of first geographic areas, and the difference in health outcomes between the geographic area outside the geographic area of interest and the geographic areas in the set of first geographic areas.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein instructions for determining a training set of data based upon the determined area of interest similarity scores includes instructions for selecting the M areas outside the geographic area of interesting having the highest area of interest similarity scores, wherein M is an integer.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the value of M changes between iterations of determining a training set of data.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the performance parameter is mean square error on the test data set.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein instructions training the hierarchical machine learning model uses Tasso regression.
21. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein instructions training the hierarchical machine learning model includes feature selection.
22. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the hierarchical machine learning model calculates a sub heath score for each of the SDoH categories and the SDoH index is a weighted sum of the sub health scores for each of the SDoH categories.
23. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein instructions for training the hierarchical machine learning model includes instructions for learning the weights used in the weighted sum.
24. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, further comprising instructions for calculating the SDoH index based upon the SDoH features for a geographic area having a second geographic level, wherein the second geographic level is less than the first geographic level.
</claims>
</document>
