<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R15/06,G01R15/16,G01R31/12,G01R31/58,G01R31/66
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
3M INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY (MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY)
CONNECTED INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DORON, EYAL
GUNDEL, DOUGLAS B.
EMBON, LIOR
BLICH, UDI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67998746
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRICAL POWER CABLE MONITORING DEVICE INCLUDING PARTIAL DISCHARGE SENSOR
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques, systems and articles are described for monitoring electrical equipment of a power grid and predicting likelihood failure events of such electrical equipment. In one example, a cable accessory is configured to couple to an electrical power cable and includes a partial discharge sensor and a communications unit. The partial discharge sensor is configured to detect partial discharge events and output data indicative of the partial discharge events. The communications unit is configured to output event data based at least in part on the partial discharge data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A cable accessory configured to couple to an electrical power cable, the cable accessory comprising:
a partial discharge sensor configured to detect partial discharge events and output partial discharge data indicative of the partial discharge events; and
a communications unit configured to output event data based at least in part on the partial discharge data.
2. The cable accessory of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of concentric layers, the plurality of concentric layers including:
a first layer configured to concentrically surround a central conductor of the electrical cable and comprising an insulating material;
a second layer comprising a conducting material; and
a third layer comprising a resistive material configured to resist electrical flow between the second layer and a ground conductor exterior to the third layer,
wherein the second layer is disposed between the first layer and the third layer, and wherein the partial discharge sensor is electrically coupled to the second layer and is configured to detect partial discharge events occurring in the first layer by detecting current in the second layer.
3. The cable accessory of claim 2, wherein the second layer comprises a plurality of regions including a first region and a second region, wherein the first region includes a material having a relatively high resistance compared to a material of the second region, and wherein the partial discharge sensors is electrically coupled to the second region of the second layer.
4. The cable accessory of claim 3, wherein the first region includes a dielectric.
5. The cable accessory of any one of claims 1-4, further comprising at least one processor and a plurality of partial discharge sensors that include the partial discharge sensor,
wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine, based on data indicative of a particular partial discharge event from each of the plurality of partial discharge sensors, a location of the particular partial discharge event.
6. The cable accessory of claim 5,
wherein the data indicative of the particular partial discharge event includes a time at which each respective partial discharge sensor of the plurality of partial discharge sensors detected the particular partial discharge event, and
wherein the at least one processor determines the location of the particular partial discharge event based at least in part on the time at which each respective partial discharge sensor of the plurality of partial discharge sensors detected the particular partial discharge event.
7. The cable accessory of any one of claims 5-6,
wherein the data indicative of the particular partial discharge event includes data indicating a magnitude of the partial discharge event detected by each respective partial discharge sensor of the plurality of partial discharge sensors, and
wherein the at least one processor determines the location of the particular partial discharge event based at least in part on the magnitude of the partial discharge event detected by each respective partial discharge sensor of the plurality of partial discharge sensors.
8. The cable accessory of any one of claims 5-7,
wherein the at least one processor determines the location of the particular partial discharge event by determining whether the particular partial discharge event occurred external to the cable accessory, at an interface of the cable accessory and an electrical cable, or internal to the cable accessory.
9. The cable accessory of any one of claims 5-8,
wherein the partial discharge sensor is a first partial discharge sensor,
wherein the plurality of discharge sensors includes a second partial discharge sensor,
wherein the second partial discharge sensor is configured to couple to an insulation shield of an electrical cable and a ground conductor.
10. The cable accessory of any one of claims 1-8, further comprising memory that includes instructions that, when executed, cause the at least one processor to determine, based at least in part on the data indicative of the partial discharge events, a health of the cable accessory;
wherein the event data includes data indicative of the health of the cable accessory.
11. The cable accessory of any one of claims 10,
wherein the instructions cause the at least one processor to determine the health of the cable accessory by predicting whether the cable accessory will fail within a
predetermined amount of time, and
wherein the data indicative of the health of the cable accessory includes data indicating whether the cable accessory will fail within the predetermined amount of time.
12. The cable accessory of any one of claims 10-11, wherein the instructions cause the at least one processor to determine the health of the cable accessory by at least causing the at least one processor to apply a model to at least the data indicative of the partial discharge events to determine the heath of the cable accessory.
13. The cable accessory of claim 1, wherein the cable accessory comprises:
a cable splice configured to electrically and physically couple a first electrical cable to a second electrical cable, or
a cable termination configured to couple the electrical cable to an electrical circuit of an electrical power delivery node.
14. The cable accessory of claim 13, wherein the communications unit is configured to output the partial discharge sensor data via the electrical cable using power line communications.
15. The system of any one of claims 1-14, wherein the cable accessory includes a power harvesting circuit configured to harvest electrical power from the electrical cable.
16. A system comprising:
a cable accessory including a partial discharge sensor, the partial discharge sensor configured to generate partial discharge sensor data that is indicative of one or more partial discharge events; and
at least one processor; and
a storage device comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to:
receive the partial discharge sensor data;
determine, based at least in part on the partial discharge sensor data, a health of the cable accessory; and
responsive to determining the health of the cable accessory, perform an operation.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the cable accessory includes a splice body, the splice body comprising a plurality of concentric layers, the plurality of concentric layers including:
a first layer configured to concentrically surround a central conductor of the electrical cable and comprising an insulating material;
a second layer comprising a conducting material; and
a third layer comprising a resistive material configured to resist electrical flow between the second layer and a ground conductor exterior to the third layer,
wherein the second layer is disposed between the first layer and the third layer, and wherein the partial discharge sensor is electrically coupled to the second layer and is configured to detect partial discharge events occurring in the first layer by detecting current in the second layer.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the second layer comprises a plurality of regions including a first region and a second region, wherein the first region includes a material having a relatively high resistance compared to a material of the second region, and wherein the partial discharge sensors is electrically coupled to the second region of the second layer.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the first region includes a dielectric.
20. The system of any one of claims 16-19, wherein the cable accessory comprises a plurality of partial discharge sensors that include the partial discharge sensor,
wherein execution of the instructions further cause the at least one processor to determine, based on data indicative of a particular partial discharge event from each of the plurality of partial discharge sensors, a location of the particular partial discharge event, and
wherein the instructions cause the at least one processor to determine the health of the cable accessory based at least in part on the location of the particular partial discharge event.
21. The cable accessory of claim 20,
wherein the data indicative of the particular partial discharge event includes a time at which each respective partial discharge sensor of the plurality of partial discharge sensors detected the particular partial discharge event, and
wherein the instructions cause the at least one processor to determine the location of the particular partial discharge event based at least in part on the time at which each respective partial discharge sensor of the plurality of partial discharge sensors detected the particular partial discharge event.
22. The system of any one of claims 20-21,
wherein the data indicative of the particular partial discharge event includes data indicating a magnitude of the partial discharge event detected by each respective partial discharge sensor of the plurality of partial discharge sensors, and
wherein the instructions cause the at least one processor to determine the location of the particular partial discharge event based at least in part on the magnitude of the partial discharge event detected by each respective partial discharge sensor of the plurality of partial discharge sensors.
23. The system of any one of claims 20-21,
wherein the instructions cause the at least one processor to determine the location of the particular partial discharge event by determining whether the particular partial discharge event occurred external to the cable accessory, at an interface of the cable accessory and an electrical cable, or internal to the cable accessory.
24. The system of any one of claims 20-23,
wherein the partial discharge sensor is a first partial discharge sensor,
wherein the plurality of discharge sensors includes a second partial discharge sensor,
wherein the second partial discharge sensor is configured to couple to an insulation shield of an electrical cable and a ground conductor.
25. The system of any one of claims 16-24, wherein execution of the instructions causes the at least one processor to perform the operation by causing the at least one processor to output a notification indicating the health of the cable accessory.
26. The system of any one of claims 16-25, wherein execution of the instructions causes the at least one processor to perform the operation by causing the at least one processor to output, for display, data representing a user interface indicative of the health of the cable accessory.
27. The system of any one of claims 16-26, wherein execution of the instructions causes the at least one processor to perform the operation by causing the at least one processor to output a command to adjust a component of a power grid that includes the cable accessory.
28. The system of any one of claims 16-27, wherein execution of the instructions causes the at least one processor to perform the operation by causing the at least one processor to schedule maintenance or replacement of the cable accessory.
29. The system of any one of claims 16-28,
wherein the instructions cause the at least one processor to determine the health of the cable accessory by predicting whether the cable accessory will fail within a
predetermined amount of time, and
wherein the data indicative of the health of the cable accessory includes data indicating whether the cable accessory will fail within the predetermined amount of time.
30. The system of any one of claims 16-29, wherein the instructions cause the at least one processor to determine the health of the cable accessory by at least causing the at least one processor to apply a model to at least the data indicative of the partial discharge events to determine the heath of the cable accessory.
31. The system of claim 30, wherein the model is trained based at least in part on partial discharge data and historical data of known failure events from a plurality of cable accessories with one or more characteristics that correspond to one or more characteristics of the cable accessory.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein the one or more characteristics of the cable accessory include one or more of:
location of the cable accessory,
manufacturer of the cable accessory,
installer of the cable accessory, or
type of the cable accessory.
33. The system of any one of claims 30-32, wherein execution of the instructions causes the at least one processor to update the model based on the partial discharge sensor data from the cable accessory.
34. The system of any one of claims 16-33, wherein the cable accessory includes a communications unit configured to output the partial discharge sensor data.
35. The system of claim 34, wherein the communications unit is configured to output the partial discharge sensor data via the electrical cable using power line communications.
36. The system of any one of claims 16-35, wherein the cable accessory includes a power harvesting circuit configured to harvest electrical power from the electrical cable.
37. The system of any one of claims 16-36, wherein the cable accessory includes the storage device and the at least one processor.
38. The system of any one of claims 16-37, further comprising a communications unit separate from the cable accessory, the communications unit configured to receive partial discharge sensor data from a plurality of articles of electrical equipment that include the cable accessory, wherein the communications unit includes the storage device and the at least one processor.
39. A method comprising:
receiving, by at least one processor, from a partial discharge sensor of a cable accessory coupled to an electrical cable, partial discharge data indicative of one or more partial discharge events; and
outputting, by the at least one processor, event data that is based on the partial discharge data indicative of the health of the cable accessory.
40. The method of claim 39, further comprising:
receiving, by the at least one processor, from a plurality of partial discharge sensors of the cable accessory, the plurality of partial discharge sensors including the partial discharge sensor, partial discharge data indicative of a particular partial discharge event;
determining, by the at least one processor, based on the partial discharge data indicative of the particular partial discharge event, a location of the particular partial discharge event,
wherein the event data includes data indicating the location of the particular partial discharge event.
41. The method of claim 40,
wherein the data indicative of the particular partial discharge event includes a time at which each respective partial discharge sensor of the plurality of partial discharge sensors detected the particular partial discharge event, and
wherein determining the location of the particular partial discharge event includes determining the location of the particular partial discharge event based at least in part on the time at which each respective partial discharge sensor of the plurality of partial discharge sensors detected the particular partial discharge event.
42. The method of any one of claims 40-41,
wherein the data indicative of the particular partial discharge event includes data indicating a magnitude of the partial discharge event detected by each respective partial discharge sensor of the plurality of partial discharge sensors, and
wherein determining the location of the particular partial discharge event includes determining the location of the particular partial discharge event based at least in part on the magnitude of the partial discharge event detected by each respective partial discharge sensor of the plurality of partial discharge sensors.
43. The method of any one of claims 40-42,
wherein determining the location of the particular partial discharge event includes determining whether the particular partial discharge event occurred external to the cable accessory, at an interface of the cable accessory and an electrical cable, or internal to the cable accessory.
44. The method of any one of claims 39-43, further comprising:
determining, by the at least one processor, based at least in part on the partial discharge data, a health of the cable accessory,
wherein the event data includes data indicating the health of the cable accessory.
45. The method of claim 44,
wherein determining the health of the cable accessory includes predicting, by the at least one processor, whether the cable accessory will fail within a predetermined amount of time, and
wherein the data indicative of the health of the cable accessory includes data indicating whether the cable accessory will fail within the predetermined amount of time.
46. The method of any one of claims 39-45, further comprising:
detecting, by the partial discharge sensor, the one or more partial discharge events occurring in a first layer of a plurality of concentric layers of the cable accessory by detecting current in a second layer of the plurality of concentric layers, the second layer disposed between the first layer and a third layer of the plurality of concentric layers, wherein the first layer concentrically surrounds a central conductor of the electrical cable and comprises an insulating material, wherein the second layer comprises a conducting material, and wherein the third layer comprises a resistive material configured to resist electrical flow between the second layer and a ground conductor exterior to the third layer; and
outputting, by the partial discharge sensor and to the at least one processor, the partial discharge data indicative of the one or more partial discharge events in response to detecting the one or more partial discharge events.
47. A computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing device, cause the at least one processor to perform the method of any one of claims 39-46.
48. A computing device comprising:
at least one processor;
memory comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, causes the at least one processor to perform the method of any one of claims 39-46.
</claims>
</document>
