<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J9/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAUER, CORNELIA
BAUER, DOMINIK
CHANG, KAI-HUNG
COROS, STELIAN
KING, JONATHAN
MORO, DANIELE
POLLARD, NANCY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70055380
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FLEXIBLE MANIPULATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR FABRICATING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
A manipulation device includes an appendage extending from a base, the appendage comprising a flexible material having a resting pose and adapted to be deformed into a plurality of different poses, and at least one tendon attached to an end of the appendage and passing through the base or a portion of the appendage between the base and the distal end, such that actuation of the at least one tendon causes deformation of the appendage from the resting pose to a new pose. Systems and methods for fabricating and optimizing a manipulation device are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for fabricating a tendon-driven manipulation device comprising at least one appendage, the method comprising:
generating, with at least one processor, a three-dimensional model of the manipulation device;
generating, with the at least one processor, at least one simulated tendon connected to the three-dimensional model based on at least one location on the at least one appendage of the three-dimensional model;
training, with the at least one processor, an artificial neural network based on simulated activations of the at least one simulated tendon, wherein each simulated activation is based on the at least one location of the at least one simulated tendon and results in at least one pose of the at least one appendage;
modifying, with the at least one processor, the at least one location of the at least one simulated tendon;
simulating, with the at least one processor, a plurality of poses of the at least one appendage based on the artificial neural network and the at least one location; and
connecting at least one tendon to the at least one appendage of the manipulation device based on the location of the at least one simulated tendon.
2. The method of claim 1 , further comprising forming the at least one appendage from at least one of the following materials: foam, silicone, an elastomer, polydimethylsiloxane, rubber, plastic, biological material, nanomaterial, cork, compressed textiles, or any combination thereof.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein forming the at least one appendage further comprises covering at least a portion of the appendage with a skin.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein connecting the at least one tendon to the manipulation device comprises connecting the tendon to the skin. 5. The method of claim 1 , wherein the at least one tendon comprises a flexor tendon and an extensor tendon, and wherein the at least one simulated tendon comprises a simulated flexor tendon and a simulated extensor tendon.
6. The method of claim 1 , wherein the at least one appendage comprises a plurality of fingers.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the manipulation device comprises a molded or printed human hand.
8. The method of claim 1 , wherein connecting the at least one tendon to the manipulation device comprises:
connecting a first end of the at least one tendon to a location corresponding to the location of the at least one simulated tendon; and
passing the at least one tendon through a portion of a base connected to the at least one appendage or a portion of the at least one appendage between the base and the location.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising connecting a second end of the at least one tendon to an actuation device configured to actuate the at least one tendon.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the at least one simulated tendon is generated based further on a simulated connection point located on the threedimensional model, wherein each simulated activation is based further on a location of the simulated connection point, and wherein passing the at least one tendon through the portion of the base or the portion of the at least one appendage comprises passing the at least one tendon through a location on the base or the at least one appendage corresponding to the location of the simulated connection point.
11. The method of claim 1 , wherein the at least one tendon comprises at least one of the following: a string, a wire, a cable, or any combination thereof. 12. The method of claim 1 , wherein the simulated activations of the at least one tendon are based on at least one of the following tendon properties: elasticity, stiffness, slack, strength, bend radius, friction, material type, or any combination thereof.
13. The method of claim 1 , wherein the at least one appendage comprises a joint, and wherein connecting the at least one tendon to the manipulation device comprises;
connecting a first end of the at least one tendon to the location of the at least one simulated tendon; and
passing the at least one tendon through a portion of the at least one appendage below the joint such that the joint is arranged between the location and the portion of the at least one appendage.
14. The method of claim 1 , wherein the at least one location on the at least one appendage is identified based on user input, and wherein the at least one location is modified based on additional user input.
15. A system for fabricating a tendon-driven manipulation device comprising at least one appendage, the system comprising:
a manipulation device comprising a base, at least one appendage extending from the base, and at least one tendon connected to the appendage; and at least one computing device programmed or configured to:
generate a three-dimensional model of the manipulation device; generate at least one simulated tendon relative to the threedimensional model based on at least one location on the at least one appendage of the three-dimensional model;
train an artificial neural network based on simulated activations of the at least one simulated tendon, wherein each simulated activation is based on the at least one location of the at least one simulated tendon and results in at least one pose of the at least one appendage;
modify the at least one location of the at least one simulated tendon; and simulate a plurality of poses of the at least one appendage based on the artificial neural network and the at least one location, wherein the at least one tendon is connected to the manipulation device based on the location of the at least one simulated tendon.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one computing device is further programmed or configured to forming the at least one appendage from at least one of the following materials: foam, silicone, an elastomer, polydimethylsiloxane, rubber, plastic, biological material, nanomaterial, cork, compressed textiles, or any combination thereof.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the manipulation device further comprises a skin.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the at least one tendon is connected to the skin.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one tendon comprises a flexor tendon and an extensor tendon, and wherein the at least one simulated tendon comprises a simulated flexor tendon and a simulated extensor tendon.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one appendage comprises a plurality of fingers.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the manipulation device comprises a molded or printed human hand.
22. The system of claim 15, wherein a first end of the at least one tendon is connected to a location corresponding to the location of the at least one simulated tendon, and wherein the at least one tendon passes through a portion of the base or a portion of the at least one appendage between the base and the location. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the manipulation device further comprises an actuation device configured to actuate the at least one tendon, and wherein a second end of the at least one tendon is connected to the actuation device.
24. The system of claim 22, wherein the at least one simulated tendon is generated based further on a simulated connection point located on the threedimensional model, wherein each simulated actuation is based further on a location of the simulated connection point, and wherein the at least one tendon passes through a location on the base or the at least one appendage corresponding to the location of the simulated connection point.
25. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one tendon comprises at least one of the following: a string, a wire, a cable, or any combination thereof.
26. The system of claim 15, wherein the simulated actuations of the at least one tendon are based on at least one of the following tendon properties: elasticity, stiffness, slack, strength, bend radius, friction, material type, or any combination thereof.
27. A computer program product for simulating a tendon-driven manipulation device comprising at least one appendage, comprising at least one nontransitory computer-readable medium including program instructions that, when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to:
generate a three-dimensional model of the manipulation device; generate at least one simulated tendon on the three-dimensional model based on at least one location on the at least one appendage of the three-dimensional model;
train an artificial neural network based on simulated activations of the at least one simulated tendon, wherein each simulated activation is based on the at least one location of the at least one simulated tendon and results in at least one pose of the at least one appendage;
modify the at least one location of the at least one simulated tendon; and simulate a plurality of poses of the at least one appendage based on the artificial neural network and the at least one location, wherein the at least one tendon is connected to the manipulation device based on the location of the at least one simulated tendon.
28. A manipulation device comprising:
an appendage extending from a base, the appendage comprising a flexible material having a resting pose and adapted to be deformed into a plurality of different poses; and
at least one tendon connected to an end portion of the appendage and passing through the base or a portion of the appendage between the base and the end portion, such that actuation of the at least one tendon causes deformation of the appendage from the resting pose to a new pose.
29. The manipulation device of claim 28, further comprising:
a plurality of appendages extending from the base, wherein each appendage comprises the semi-rigid material; and
a plurality of tendons connected to the plurality of appendages, wherein at least one tendon of the plurality of tendons is connected to an end portion of each appendage of the plurality of appendages.
30. The manipulation device of claim 28, further comprising the base.
31 . The manipulation device of claim 30, wherein the base comprises a hand and wherein the appendage comprises a finger extending from the hand.
32. The manipulation device of claim 28, further comprising at least one actuation device connected to the at least one tendon and configured to actuate the at least one tendon.
33. The manipulation device of claim 28, wherein the at least one tendon comprises a flexor tendon and an extensor tendon, wherein the flexor tendon is connected to the end portion of the appendage and passes through a front side of the base or a portion of a front side of the appendage between the base and the end portion, wherein the extensor tendon is connected to the end portion of the appendage and passes through a back side of the base or a portion of a back side of the appendage between the base and the end portion.
34. The manipulation device of claim 28, wherein the semi-rigid material comprises at least one of the following: foam, silicone, an elastomer, polydimethylsiloxane, rubber, plastic, biological material nanomaterial, cork, compressed textiles, or any combination thereof.
35. The manipulation device of claim 28, wherein the appendage further comprises a flexible skin covering the semi-rigid material, and wherein the at least one tendon is connected to the flexible skin.
36. The manipulation device of claim 28, wherein the appendage comprises a first joint.
37. The manipulation device of claim 28, wherein the appendage consists of the semi-rigid material.
38. The manipulation device of claim 28, wherein the at least one tendon comprises at least one of the following: a string, a wire, a cable, or any combination thereof.
39. The manipulation device of claim 28, wherein the end portion comprises a material that is more rigid than the flexible material.
40. A method for optimizing the design of a tendon-driven manipulation device comprising at least one appendage, the method comprising:
generating, with a least one processor, a three-dimensional model of the manipulation device;
generating, with the at least one processor, a plurality of candidate tendon routings for at least one tendon;
evaluating, with the at least one processor, the plurality of candidate tendon routings; and determining, with the at least one processor, at least one optimal tendon routing based on evaluating the plurality of candidate tendon routings.
41 . The method of claim 40, further comprising: initializing, with the at least one processor, the at least one tendon before generating the plurality of candidate tendon routings.
42. The method of claim 41 , wherein initializing comprises:
sampling a plurality of anchoring nodes; and
identifying an optimal path along the model that connects the plurality of anchoring nodes.
43. The method of claim 41 , further comprising:
receiving, as input, at least one desired manipulation; and determining a position and orientation of at least one end portion of at least one appendage based on the input, wherein the at least one tendon is initialized based on the at least one desired manipulation.
44. The method of claim 40, further comprising:
generating, with the at least one processor, a plurality of candidate actuation forces for the at least one tendon;
evaluating, with the at least one processor, the plurality of candidate actuation forces; and
determining, with the at least one processor, at least one optimal actuation force based on evaluating the plurality of candidate actuation forces.
45. The method of claim 44, wherein the actuation forces comprise distances.
46. A system for optimizing the design of a tendon-driven manipulation device comprising at least one appendage, comprising at least one computing device programmed or configured to:
generate a three-dimensional model of the manipulation device;
generate a plurality of candidate tendon routings for at least one tendon; evaluate the plurality of candidate tendon routings; and
determine at least one optimal tendon routing based on evaluating the plurality of candidate tendon routings.
47. The system of claim 46, wherein the at least one computing device is further programmed or configured to: initialize the at least one tendon before generating the plurality of candidate tendon routings.
48. The system of claim 47, wherein initializing comprises:
sampling a plurality of anchoring nodes; and
identifying an optimal path along the model that connects the plurality of anchoring nodes.
49. The system of claim 47, wherein the at least one computing device is further programmed or configured to:
receive, as input, at least one desired manipulation; and
determine a position and orientation of at least one end portion of at least one appendage based on the input, wherein the at least one tendon is initialized based on the at least one desired manipulation.
50. The system of claim 46, wherein the at least one computing device is further programmed or configured to:
generate a plurality of candidate actuation forces for the at least one tendon;
evaluate the plurality of candidate actuation forces; and
determine at least one optimal actuation force based on evaluating the plurality of candidate actuation forces.
51 . The system of claim 50, wherein the actuation forces comprise distances.
52. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one location on the at least one appendage is identified based on user input, and wherein the at least one location is modified based on additional user input.
</claims>
</document>
