<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B45/00,G01V3/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NATIONAL OILWELL VARCO
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAMIREZ, RICARDO
PETERSON, JACOB
SOUKUP, IAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70970796
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HIGH-SPEED ANALYTICS AND VIRTUALIZATION ENGINE
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques related to improving performance of an automated control system for drilling with a drilling system, comprising directing drilling tools on a drilling rig to drill, a borehole using the automated control system, obtaining, from one or more surface sensors disposed at a surface of the drilling site, surface sensor data relating to surface drilling activity of the drilling system, determining, based on a comparison between the surface sensor data and a set of historical data, a set of drilling parameters associated with a drilling state, applying the set of drilling parameters to a physics model of the drilling site to determine a set of downhole parameters for the drilling site, wherein the physics model comprises a simulation of current conditions of the borehole and a drill string of the drilling rig, and adjusting operation of at least one of the drilling tools based on the set of downhole parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for improving performance of an automated control system for drilling with a drilling system at a drilling site, comprising:
directing drilling tools on a drilling rig to drill, at the drilling site, a borehole using the automated control system;
obtaining, from one or more surface sensors disposed at a surface of the drilling site, surface sensor data relating to surface drilling activity of the drilling system;
determining, based on a comparison between the surface sensor data and a set of historical data, a set of drilling parameters associated with a drilling state;
applying the set of drilling parameters to a physics model of the drilling site to determine a set of downhole parameters for the drilling site, wherein the physics model comprises a simulation of current conditions of the borehole and a drill string of the drilling rig; and
adjusting operation of at least one of the drilling tools based on the set of downhole parameters.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of drilling parameters comprise at least one of an indication that a drill bit is on or off bottom, the drill string is rotating, pipe is being added to the drill string, and an amount of the pipe pushed into the borehole.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the determination is based on a trained machine learning data model of the drilling site.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the determination is based on a statistical data model of the drilling site.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the physics model comprises a finite element method physics model of the drilling site.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of downhole parameters are calculated parameters comprising at least one of a downhole weight on bit, downhole torque on bit, downhole revolutions per minute, and downhole drilled distance.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving an indication that a pipe has been added to or removed from the drill string; and
triggering a recalculation of the physics model based on the indication.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
obtaining an updated surface sensor data relating to surface drilling activity; and repeating the steps of determining the set of drilling parameters, applying the set of drilling parameters, and adjusting the operation of at least one of the drilling tools based on the updated surface sensor data.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
comparing the set of downhole parameters to the surface sensor data to adjust a configuration of the physics model.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps of obtaining the surface sensor data, determining the set of drilling parameters, applying the set of drilling parameters, and adjusting the operation of at least one of the drilling tools based on the updated surface sensor data are performed at the drilling site.
11. A system for improving performance of an automated control system for drilling with a drilling system at a drilling site, comprising:
one or more drilling tools on a drilling rig to drill, at the drilling site, a borehole using the automated control system;
one or more sensors disposed at a surface of the drilling site; and
the automated control system, wherein the automated control system includes one or more processors and a non-transitory program storage device comprising instructions stored thereon to cause the one or more processors to:
obtain, from the one or more surface sensors disposed at a surface of the drilling site, surface sensor data relating to surface drilling activity of the drilling system;
determine, based on a comparison between the sensor data and a set of historical data, a set of drilling parameters associated with a drilling state; apply the set of drilling parameters to a physics model of the drilling site to determine a set of downhole parameters for the drilling site, wherein the physics model comprises a simulation of current conditions of the borehole and a drill string of the drilling rig; and
adjust the operation of at least one of the drilling tools based on the set of downhole parameters.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the set of drilling parameters comprise at least one of an indication that a drill bit is on or off bottom, the drill string is rotating, pipe is being added to the drill string, and an amount of the pipe pushed into the borehole.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the determination is based on a trained machine learning data model of the drilling site.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the determination is based on a statistical data model of the drilling site.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the physics model comprises a finite element method physics model of the drilling site.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the set of downhole parameters are calculated parameters comprising at least one of a downhole weight on bit, downhole torque on bit, downhole revolutions per minute, and downhole drilled distance.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the stored instructions further cause one or more processors to:
receive an indication that a pipe has been added to or removed from the drill string; and
trigger a recalculation of the physics model based on the indication.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the stored instructions further cause one or more processors to:
obtain an updated surface sensor data relating to surface drilling activity; and repeat the steps of determining the set of drilling parameters, applying the set of drilling parameters, and adjusting the operation of at least one of the drilling tools based on the updated surface sensor data.
19. The non-transitory program storage device of claim 11, wherein the stored instructions further cause one or more processors to:
compare the set of downhole parameters to the surface sensor data to adjust a configuration of the physics model.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the steps of obtaining the surface sensor data, determining the set of drilling parameters, applying the set of drilling parameters, and adjusting the operation of at least one of the drilling tools based on the updated surface sensor data are performed at the drilling site.
21. A non-transitory program storage device for drilling with a drilling system at a drilling site comprising instructions stored thereon to cause one or more processors to:
direct drilling tools on a drilling rig to drill, at the drilling site, a borehole using the automated control system;
obtain, from one or more surface sensors disposed at a surface of the drilling site, surface sensor data relating to surface drilling activity of the drilling system;
determine, based on a comparison between the surface sensor data and a set of historical data, a set of drilling parameters associated with a drilling state;
apply the set of drilling parameters to a physics model of the drilling site to determine a set of downhole parameters for the drilling site, wherein the physics model comprises a simulation of current conditions of the borehole and a drill string of the drilling rig; and
adjust operation of at least one the drilling tools based on the set of downhole parameters.
</claims>
</document>
