<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63B71/06,G01D21/00,G06N20/00,G07C11/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTELLISPORTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUILLEMETTE, JONATHAN
MATTES, BEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70462998
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR REAL-TIME ACTIVITY CLASSIFICATION AND FEEDBACK
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for real-time activity classification and feedback are provided. Real- time activity-related sensor data is acquired from one or more motion sensing devices during performance of at least one physical activity. Using at least one intelligent processing technique, one or more movements executed as part of the at least one physical activity are identified based on the sensor data. At least one quality assessment is attributed to each of the one or more movements as identified using the at least one intelligent processing technique. Real-time feedback about the one or more movements is generated based on the at least one quality assessment and the feedback is rendered to an output device in real-time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1 . A computer-implemented method comprising, at a computing device:
acquiring, from one or more motion sensing devices, real-time activity-related sensor data during performance of at least one physical activity;
identifying, using at least one intelligent processing technique and based on the sensor data, one or more movements executed as part of the at least one physical activity; attributing, using the at least one intelligent processing technique, at least one quality assessment to each of the one or more movements as identified; and
generating, based on the at least one quality assessment, real-time feedback about the one or more movements and rendering the feedback to at least one output device in real-time.
2. The method of claim 1 , further comprising obtaining motion classification data responsive to identifying the one or more movements, and applying the at least one intelligent processing technique to the motion classification data to determine at least one key performance indicator associated with the one or more movements.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising:
assessing, using the at least one intelligent processing technique, whether the one or more movements are valid;
responsive to determining that the one or more movements are valid, generating, using the at least one intelligent processing technique, the motion classification data indicative of the one or more movements as identified; and
responsive to determining that the one or more movements are not valid, identifying, using the at least one intelligent processing technique, one of an invalid motion and a cheating motion and generating, using the at least one intelligent processing technique, the motion classification data indicative of the one of the invalid motion and the cheating motion.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one key performance indicator is determined for each one of a plurality of axes along which the one or more movements of the user are measured, the at least one key performance indicator comprising at least one of speed, distance, time, sweep, consistency, deviation, and behavior.
5. The method of claim 1 , wherein identifying the one or more movements comprises using the at least one intelligent processing technique to identify, based on the sensor data, at least one a core motion of a user performing the at least one physical activity, a limb motion of the user during the at least one physical activity, and a motion of at least one play object manipulated by the user during the at least one physical activity.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the sensor data is acquired from the one or more motion sensing devices comprising at least one accelerator and/or at least one gyroscope, the at least one accelerator configured to produce in real-time acceleration values indicative of an acceleration of the user during the at least one physical activity and the at least one gyroscope configured to produce in real-time rotation values indicative of rotation of a body of the user during the at least one physical activity.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the sensor data is acquired from the one or more motion sensing devices comprising at least a first data collector and a second data collector, the first data collector secured to a limb of the user and configured to collect in real-time first data indicative of the limb motion and the second data collector secured to a core of the user and configured to collect in real-time second data indicative of the core motion.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the sensor data is acquired from the one or more motion sensing devices comprising at least one data collector provided in a portable electronic device configured to be secured to a body of the user.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the feedback is rendered to the at least one output device associated with the portable electronic device.
10. The method of claim 5, wherein the sensor data is acquired from the one or more motion sensing devices comprising at least one data collector provided in the at least one play object, the at least one data collector configured to collect in real-time the sensor data indicative of a displacement of the play object through space.
11. The method of claim 1 , wherein a trained model is applied to the sensor data to identify the one or more movements, attribute the at least one quality assessment, and generate the real-time feedback.
12. A system comprising:
one or more motion sensing devices configured to generate activity-related sensor data in real-time during performance of at least one physical activity;
a processing unit communicatively connected to the one or more motions data; and a non-transitory memory communicatively coupled to the processing unit and comprising computer-readable program instructions executable by the processing unit for:
acquiring the sensor data in real-time from the one or more motion sensing devices;
identifying, using at least one intelligent processing technique and based on the sensor data, one or more movements executed as part of the at least one physical activity;
attributing, using the at least one intelligent processing technique, at least one quality assessment to each of the one or more movements as identified; and generating, based on the at least one quality assessment, real-time feedback about the one or more movements and rendering the feedback to at least one output device in real-time.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the computer-readable program instructions are further executable by the processing unit for obtaining motion classification data responsive to identifying the one or more movements, and applying the at least one intelligent processing technique to the motion classification data to determine at least one key performance indicator associated with the one or more movements.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the computer-readable program instructions are further executable by the processing unit for : assessing, using the at least one intelligent processing technique, whether the one or more movements are valid;
responsive to determining that the one or more movements are valid, generating, using the at least one intelligent processing technique, the motion classification data indicative of the one or more movements as identified; and
responsive to determining that the one or more movements are not valid, identifying, using the at least one intelligent processing technique, one of an invalid motion and a cheating motion and generating, using the at least one intelligent processing technique, the motion classification data indicative of the one of the invalid motion and the cheating motion.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the computer-readable program instructions are executable by the processing unit for determining the at least one key performance indicator for each one of a plurality of axes along which the one or more movements of the user are measured, the at least one key performance indicator comprising at least one of speed, distance, time, sweep, consistency, deviation, and behavior.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the computer-readable program instructions are executable by the processing unit for identifying the one or more movements comprising using the at least one intelligent processing technique to identify, based on the sensor data, at least one a core motion of a user performing the at least one physical activity, a limb motion of the user during the at least one physical activity, and a motion of at least one play object manipulated by the user during the at least one physical activity.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the one or more motion sensing devices comprise at least a first data collector and a second data collector, the first data collector secured to a limb of the user and configured to collect in real-time first data indicative of the limb motion and the second data collector secured to a core of the user and configured to collect in real-time second data indicative of the core motion.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the one or more motion sensing devices comprise at least one data collector provided in a portable electronic device configured to be secured to a body of the user.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the one or more motion sensing devices comprise at least one data collector provided in the at least one play object, the at least one data collector configured to collect in real-time the sensor data indicative of a displacement of the play object through space.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon program code executable by at least one processor for:
acquiring, from one or more motion sensing devices, real-time activity-related sensor data during performance of at least one physical activity;
identifying, using at least one intelligent processing technique and based on the sensor data, one or more movements executed as part of the at least one physical activity; attributing, using the at least one intelligent processing technique, at least one quality assessment to each of the one or more movements; and
generating, based on the at least one quality assessment, real-time feedback about the one or more movements and rendering the feedback to at least one output device in real-time.
</claims>
</document>
