<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B12/02,E21B41/00,G01N21/88,G01N21/95,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HALLIBURTON ENERGY SERVICES GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
ATKINS, WILLIAM
QUIROZ, JOSE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73780874
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CUTTER DULL EVALUATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes acquiring an image of a cutter on a drill bit, determining a cutter dull condition based on the image of the cutter using a machine-learning method, wherein the machine-learning method is trained using a set of training images and a set of known cutter dull conditions, wherein each of the set of known cutter dull conditions is associated with one or more of a set of cutters depicted in the set of training images and determining a cutter degradation severity based the image of the cutter. The method also includes generating bit modification instructions based the cutter dull condition and the cutter degradation severity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising:
acquiring an image of a cutter on a drill bit;
determining a cutter dull condition based on the image of the cutter using a machine-learning method, wherein the machine-learning method is trained using a set of training images and a set of known cutter dull conditions, wherein each of the set of known cutter dull conditions is associated with one or more of a set of cutters depicted in the set of training images;
determining a cutter degradation severity based on the image of the cutter; and
generating bit modification instructions based the cutter dull condition and the cutter
degradation severity.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the cutter degradation severity comprises determining a boundary of a damaged region on the cutter.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the bit modification instructions comprise instructions to rotate the cutter on the drill bit based on the cutter degradation severity being greater than a cutter severity threshold.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of known cutter dull conditions comprises an indicator for a broken cutter condition.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a lateral degradation severity value of the cutter, wherein the bit modification instructions are based on the lateral degradation severity value.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the bit modification instructions comprise instructions to replace the cutter on the drill bit.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the cutter is a first cutter having a first cutter type, wherein the instructions to replace the first cutter on the drill bit comprise instructions to replace the first cutter on the drill bit with a second cutter having a second cutter type, wherein the second cutter type is different from the first cutter type.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the cutter is a first cutter having a first cutter type, wherein the instructions to replace the first cutter on the drill bit comprise instructions to replace the first cutter on the drill bit with a second cutter having the first cutter type.
9. A method comprising:
acquiring a set of training data comprising training images and a set of known cutter dull conditions, wherein the set of known cutter dull conditions comprises a first known condition and a second known condition, wherein the each of the set of known cutter dull conditions is associated with one or more of a set of cutters represented by the training images, and wherein at least one of the set of cutters is associated with the first known condition and not the second known condition; and
generating a trained machine-learning framework from a machine-learning framework by training the machine-learning framework using the set of known cutter dull conditions and the training images.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first known condition indicates a worn cutter and the second known condition indicates a broken cutter.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising training the machine-learning framework using the set of known cutter dull conditions and a set of known bit modification instructions, wherein each of the set of known bit modification instructions is associated with one or more of the set of cutters, and wherein the machine-learning framework provides bit modification instructions based on a cutter dull condition.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising training the machine-learning framework using a set of known cutter degradation values and the training images, wherein each of the set of known cutter degradation values is associated with one or more of the set of cutters.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprising training the machine-learning framework using the set of cutters and a set of known cutter degradation severity values, wherein each of the set of known cutter degradation severity values is associated with one or more of the set of cutters, and wherein the machine-learning framework predicts a cutter degradation severity based on an image of a cutter.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising training the machine-learning framework using the set of known cutter dull conditions, the set of known cutter degradation severity values and a set of known bit modification instructions, wherein each of the set of known bit modification instructions is associated with one or more of the set of cutters, and wherein the machine-learning framework provides bit modification instructions based on a cutter dull condition and the cutter degradation severity.
15. An apparatus comprising:
a processor; and
a machine-readable medium having program code executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to,
acquire an image of a cutter on a drill bit,
determine a cutter dull condition based on the image of the cutter,
determine a cutter degradation severity based on the image of the cutter using a machine-learning method, wherein the machine-learning method is trained using a set of training images and a set of known cutter degradation severity values, wherein each of the set of known cutter degradation severity values is associated with one or more of a set of cutters depicted in the set of training images, and generate bit modification instructions based the cutter dull condition and the cutter degradation severity.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the set of known cutter degradation severity values includes at least three distinct values.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the program code to determine the cutter degradation severity comprises program code to determine a surface area of a damaged region on the cutter.
18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the program code to determine the cutter degradation severity comprises program code to determine a boundary of a damaged region on the cutter.
19. The one or more non-transitory machine-readable media of claim 15, wherein the bit modification instructions comprise instructions to rotate the cutter on the drill bit.
20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the bit modification instructions comprise instructions to replace the cutter on the drill bit.
</claims>
</document>
