<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/74,G06F21/75,G06F21/76
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI
</assignee>

<inventors>
EMMERT, JOHN M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73552655
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ASYNCHRONOUS PROGRAMMABLE GATE ARRAY DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods of use and fabrication are described for a THx2 threshold gate cell for a programmable gate array including a mode-independent PMOS configuration and an NMOS configuration configured to operate in one of a TH12 mode and a TH22 mode, wherein x is set to a threshold of 1 for the TH12 mode and x is set to a threshold of 2 for the TH22 mode.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A THx2 threshold gate cell comprising:
a mode-independent PMOS configuration; and
an NMOS configuration configured to operate in one of a TH12 mode and a TH22 mode, wherein x is a threshold of 1 for the TH12 mode and x is a threshold of 2 for the TH22 mode.
2. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 1, wherein the mode-independent PMOS configuration and the NMOS configuration are configured to form a NAND gate.
3. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 1, further comprising a mask programmable gate array (MPGA).
4. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 3, wherein the NMOS configuration configured to operate in one of the TH12 mode and the TH22 mode based on an additional NMOS wiring configuration to eliminate an NMOS transistor in the TH12 mode.
5. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 4, wherein a set DATA block comprises a pair of NMOS transistors connected through the additional NMOS wiring configuration in parallel in the TH12 mode.
6. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 4, wherein a set DATA block comprises a pair of NMOS transistors connected through the additional NMOS wiring configuration in series in the TH22 mode.
7. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 1, further comprising an output network, wherein: the mode-independent PMOS configuration comprises a reset NULL block comprising a pair of PMOS transistors in series; and
the NMOS configuration comprises a set DATA block comprising a pair of NMOS transistors. 8. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 7, wherein the set DATA block comprises the pair of NMOS transistors connected in parallel in the TH12 mode.
9. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 7, wherein the set DATA block comprises the pair of NMOS transistors connected in series in the TH22 mode.
10. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 7, wherein the output network comprises a pair of CMOS inverters.
11. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 1, further comprising a field programmable gate array (FPGA).
12. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 1, wherein:
the mode-independent PMOS configuration comprises a set of eight PMOS transistors; and
the NMOS configuration comprises a set of eight NMOS transistors.
13. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 12, further comprising an output network, wherein the output network comprises a portion of each of the mode-independent PMOS configuration and the NMOS configuration.
14. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 13, wherein the output network comprising the portion of each of the mode-independent PMOS configuration and the NMOS configuration comprises (i) three transistors of the set of eight PMOS transistors and (ii) one transistor of the set of eight NMOS transistors.
15. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 14, further comprising:
a memory cell configured to transmit a signal M and a logical inverse signal Mb, the memory cell comprising (i) three transistors of the set of eight PMOS transistors and (ii) two transistors of the set of eight NMOS transistors; and a base cell configured to receive the signal M and the logical inverse signal Mb, the base cell comprising the output network, a reset NULL block, and a set DATA block;
wherein the reset NULL block comprises two transistors of the set of eight PMOS transistors; and
wherein the set DATA block comprises five transistors of the set of eight NMOS transistors.
16. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 1, further comprising:
a memory cell configured to transmit a signal M and a logical inverse signal Mb; and
a base cell configured to receive the signal M and the logical inverse signal Mb.
17. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 16, wherein:
the NMOS is configuration configured to operate in one of the TH12 mode and the TH22 mode based on an NMOS programmed configuration; and the NMOS programmed configuration is programmed such that (i) a value of 1 on the signal M and a value of 0 on the logical inverse signal Mb from the memory cell is configured to operate the base cell in the TH12 mode and (ii) a value of 0 on the signal M and a value of 1 on the logical inverse signal Mb from the memory cell is configured to operate the base cell in the TH22 mode.
18. The THx2 threshold gate cell of claim 17, wherein:
two NMOS transistors in the base cell are configured to receive the value of 1 on the signal M such that a pair of NMOS transistors in the base cell are configured to receive respective inputs and be connected in parallel in the TH12 mode; and
one NMOS transistor in the base cell is configured to receive the value of 1 on the logical inverse signal Mb such that the pair of NMOS transistors in the base cell configured to receive respective inputs are configured to be connected in series in the TH22 mode.
19. A method of operating a THx2 threshold gate cell comprising:
accessing the THx2 threshold gate cell comprising a mode-independent PMOS configuration and an NMOS configuration configured to operate in one of a TH12 mode and a TH22 mode;
setting x to a threshold of 1 to operate in the TH12 mode; and
setting x to a threshold of 2 to operate in the TH22 mode.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein:
the THx2 threshold gate cell is one of a mask programmable gate array (MPGA) and a field programmable gate array (FPGA), the MPGA comprising an MPGA base cell and an output network, the FPGA comprising a memory cell configured to transmit a signal M and a logical inverse signal Mb, an FPGA base cell configured to receive the signal M and the logical inverse signal Mb, and a modified output network comprise one NMOS transistor and three PMOS transistors;
setting x in THx2 to a threshold of 1 to operate in the TH12 mode comprises
(1) connecting a pair of NMOS transistors in parallel in the NMOS configuration to eliminate an NMOS transistor of the NMOS configuration in the TH12 mode for the MPGA, and
(2) programming the memory cell for the FPGA such that a pair of NMOS transistors in the FPGA base cell are configured to receive respective inputs and be connected in parallel and a value of 1 on the signal M and a value of 0 on the logical inverse signal Mb from the memory cell is configured to operate the FPGA base cell in the TH12 mode; and
setting x in THx2 to a threshold of 2 to operate in the TH22 mode comprises
(1) connecting the pair of NMOS transistors in in series in the NMOS configuration for the MPGA, and (2) programming the memory cell for the FPGA such that the pair of NMOS transistors in the FPGA base cell configured to receive respective inputs are configured to be connected in series and a value of 0 on the signal M and a value of 1 on the logical inverse signal Mb from the memory cell is configured to operate the FPGA base cell in the
TH22 mode for the FPGA.
</claims>
</document>
