<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HEALTHPOINTE SOLUTIONS INC
</assignee>

<inventors>
GNANASAMBANDAM NATHAN
ANDERSON MARK HENRY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73459447
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR USING A BLOCKCHAIN TO MANAGE KNOWLEDGE IN A HEALTHCARE ECOSYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A method for maintaining content pertaining to healthcare in a hyperledger, the method including receiving, from a computing device associated with a medical personnel entity, a transaction request to perform an operation on the hyperledger, wherein the operation includes storing content pertaining to healthcare in the hyperledger. The method also including executing one or more rules of the hyperledger to determine whether to allow the operation to be performed, wherein at least one of the one or more rules includes determining whether the medical personnel entity is associated with an authorizing credential pertaining to healthcare. Responsive to determining that the one or more rules of the hyperledger are satisfied, the method also including performing the operation on the hyperledger to store the content in the hyperledger.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for maintaining content pertaining to healthcare in a hyperledger, the method comprising:
receiving, from a computing device associated with a medical personnel entity, a transaction request to perform an operation on the hyperledger, wherein the operation comprises storing content pertaining to healthcare in the hyperledger;
executing one or more rules of the hyperledger to determine whether to allow the operation to be performed, wherein at least one of the one or more rules comprises determining whether the medical personnel entity is associated with an authorizing credential pertaining to healthcare; and responsive to determining that the one or more rules of the hyperledger are satisfied, performing the operation on the hyperledger to store the content in the hyperledger.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the authorizing credential is stored at a transaction in the hyperledger or the authorizing credential is included in the transaction request.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more rules comprise determining, using one or more transactions stored in the hyperledger, whether at least a portion of the content is new relative to other content in the hyperledger.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the authorizing credential comprises a national provider identifier, and the one or more rules comprise determining, using one or more transactions stored in the hyperledger, whether the authorizing credential is valid.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising validating authenticating credentials, authorizing credentials, or both prior to allowing the content to be stored in the hyperledger, wherein the authenticating credentials are provided to the computing device during registration and the authorizing credentials pertain to a medical license.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising, responsive to determining that the one or more rules of the hyperledger are not satisfied, preventing the operation from being performed on the hyperledger.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the content comprises a treatment plan, wherein at least a portion of the treatment plan is written by the medical personnel entity.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving, from the computing device, a second transaction request to perform a second operation on the hyperledger, wherein the second transaction request comprises search criteria, and the second operation comprises providing, based on the search criteria, a treatment plan pertaining to healthcare that is stored in the hyperledger;
executing the one or more rules of the hyperledger to determine whether to allow the operation to be performed, wherein at least a second rule of the one or more rules comprises determining whether the medical personnel entity has a right to access the content; and
responsive to determining that the one or more rules of the hyperledger are satisfied, performing the second operation on the hyperledger to provide, based on the search criteria, the treatment plan pertaining to healthcare to the computing device.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving, from the computing device associated, a second transaction request to perform a second operation on the hyperledger, wherein the second operation comprises storing updated content pertaining to healthcare in the hyperledger, and the updated document adds additional content to original content included in the content stored in the hyperledger;
executing the one or more rules of the hyperledger to determine whether to allow the operation to be performed, wherein at least a second rule of the one or more rules comprises determining whether the additional content in the updated content is new relative to other content pertaining to healthcare stored in the hyperledger; and
responsive to determining that the one or more rules of the hyperledger are satisfied, performing the second operation on the hyperledger to store, in the hyperledger, the updated content including the additional content and the original content.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising maintaining a time series for the content that indicates when the content was stored, modified, validated, or some combination thereof.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving, from a computing device associated with a second medical personnel entity, a second transaction request to perform a second operation on the hyperledger, wherein the second operation comprises verifying the content in the hyperledger;
determining whether the second medical personnel entity is associated with a valid authorizing credential; and
responsive to determining that the second medical personnel entity is associated with the valid authoring credential, performing the second operation on the hyperledger by allowing the second medical personnel entity to verify the content.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving, from a second computing device, a transaction request to perform a second operation on the hyperledger, wherein the second operation comprises determining whether the content is trustworthy;
determining, using the hyperledger, a source of the content;
determining that the source is associated with the authorizing credential;
determining whether the content has been verified within a certain time period; and providing a notification to the second computing device that the content is trustworthy based on the source of the content being associated with the authorizing credential and the content being verified within the certain time period.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the content comprises a treatment plan for a medical issue, the medical personnel entity is a licensed medical doctor, and the hyperledger maintains different treatment plans for different licensed medical doctors that are validated as being provided by licensed medical doctors based on authorizing credentials that are stored in the hyperledger.
14. A method for maintaining content pertaining to healthcare in a hyperledger, the method comprising:
receiving, from a computing device associated with a medical personnel entity, a transaction request to perform an operation on the hyperledger, wherein the transaction request comprises search criteria, and the operation comprises providing, based on the search criteria, content pertaining to healthcare that is stored in the hyperledger;
executing one or more rules of the hyperledger to determine whether to allow the operation to be performed, wherein at least one of the one or more rules comprises determining whether the medical personnel entity has a right to access the content; and
responsive to determining that the one or more rules of the hyperledger are satisfied, performing the operation on the hyperledger to provide, based on the search criteria, the content pertaining to healthcare to the computing device.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising:
receiving, from the computing device, a second transaction request to perform a second operation on the hyperledger, wherein the second operation comprises storing second content pertaining to healthcare in the hyperledger;
executing the one or more rules of the hyperledger to determine whether to allow the second operation to be performed, wherein at least a second rule of the one or more rules comprises determining whether the medical personnel entity is associated with an authorizing credential pertaining to healthcare; and
responsive to determining that the one or more rules of the hyperledger are satisfied, performing the second operation on the hyperledger to store the second content in the hyperledger.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the right comprises the medical personnel entity being included in an organization that has viewing privileges of the content, the medical personnel entity being associated with an authorizing credential pertaining to healthcare, or some combination thereof.
17. The method of claim 14, further comprising: receiving, from the computing device, a second transaction request to perform a second operation on the hyperledger, wherein the second operation comprises storing updated content pertaining to healthcare in the hyperledger, and the updated content adds additional content to original content included in the content stored in the hyperledger;
executing the one or more rules of the hyperledger to determine whether to allow the operation to be performed, wherein at least a second rule of the one or more rules comprises determining whether the additional content in the updated content is new relative to other content pertaining to healthcare stored in the hyperledger; and
responsive to determining that the one or more rules of the hyperledger are satisfied, performing the second operation on the hyperledger to store, in the hyperledger, the updated content including the additional content and the original content.
18. A method for maintaining content pertaining to healthcare in a hyperledger, the method comprising:
receiving, from a computing device associated with a medical personnel entity, a transaction request to perform an operation on the hyperledger, wherein the operation comprises storing updated content pertaining to healthcare in the hyperledger, and the updated content adds additional content to original content stored in the hyperledger;
executing one or more rules of the hyperledger to determine whether to allow the operation to be performed, wherein at least one of the one or more rules comprises determining whether the additional content in the updated content is new relative to other content pertaining to healthcare stored in the hyperledger; and
responsive to determining that the one or more rules of the hyperledger are satisfied, performing the operation on the hyperledger to store, in the hyperledger, the updated content including the additional content and the original content.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising:
receiving, from the computing device, a second transaction request to perform a second operation on the hyperledger, wherein the second operation comprises storing second content pertaining to healthcare in the hyperledger; executing the one or more rules of the hyperledger to determine whether to allow the operation to be performed, wherein at least a second rule of the one or more rules comprises determining whether the medical personnel entity is associated with an authorizing credential pertaining to healthcare; and
responsive to determining that the one or more rules of the hyperledger are satisfied, performing the second operation on the hyperledger to store the second content in the hyperledger.
20. The method of claim 18, further comprising:
receiving, from the computing device, a second transaction request to perform a second operation on the hyperledger, wherein the second transaction request comprises search criteria, and the second operation comprises providing, based on the search criteria, the updated content pertaining to healthcare that is stored in the hyperledger;
executing the one or more rules of the hyperledger to determine whether to allow the second operation to be performed, wherein at least a second rule of the one or more rules comprises determining whether the medical personnel entity has a right to access the updated content; and responsive to determining that the one or more rules of the hyperledger are satisfied, performing the second operation on the hyperledger to provide, based on the search criteria, the updated content pertaining to healthcare to the computing device.
</claims>
</document>
