<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B26/08,G02B26/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOLMES, STEPHEN
MAGOZ, ZIV
MASOOD, TAHA
MCELDOWNEY, SCOTT
PETERSON JONATHAN
GREIF, Daniel
LAUDOLFF, James
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72605311
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TRAJECTORY ESTIMATION FOR A MEMS REFLECTOR
</title>

<abstract>
A controller for a tillable MEMS reflector is configured to oscillate the reflector about X axis or about X and Y axes, and to obtain information about current and past tilt angles. The controller is configured to evaluate tilt angles of the tillable MEMS reflector at a later moment of time based on the previously obtained information about the tilt angles of the tillable MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time. The controller may be further configured to energize the light source providing a light beam to the tillable MEMS reflector at the later moment of time with brightness and color corresponding to the brightness and color of a pixel that will be painted by the tillable MEMS reflector at the later moment of time. A statistical model may be combined with machine learning to accurately predict future tilt angles of the tillable MEMS reflector.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A controller for a biresonant MEMS reflector, the controller configured for: oscillating the biresonant MEMS reflector about X and Y axes by providing driving signals to the biresonant MEMS reflector;
obtaining information about tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector at different moments of time; and
evaluating a tilt angle of the biresonant MEMS reflector based on the obtained information about the tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time.
2. The controller of claim 1, configured for obtaining the information about the tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS at the different earlier moments of time by obtaining sync signals at the different earlier moments of time, the sync signals indicating a pre-determined tilt angle of the biresonant MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time.
3. The controller of claim 1, configured for obtaining the information about the tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time by:
determining a phase of a resonant oscillation of the biresonant MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time; and/or
measuring tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector about at least one of the X axis or the Y axis at the different earlier moments of time.
4. The controller of claim 1, configured for evaluating the tilt angle of the biresonant MEMS reflector based on a time difference between the different earlier moments of time when the biresonant MEMS reflector had a pre-determined tilt angle value.
5. The controller of claim 1, further configured for determining a parameter of a model defining tilting of the biresonant MEMS reflector as a function of time based on the obtained information about the tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time.
6. The controller of claim 5, wherein the model comprises a statistical model defining a probability distribution of the tilt angle of the biresonant MEMS reflector as a function of the tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time; and, optionally
comprising a neural network configured to analyze the obtained information about the tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time to determine the probability distribution of the statistical model.
7. A scanning projector display comprising:
a light source for providing a light beam;
a biresonant MEMS reflector optically coupled to the light source for scanning the light beam to provide an image in angular domain; and
a controller operably coupled to the light source and the biresonant MEMS reflector and configured for:
oscillating the biresonant MEMS reflector about X and Y axes by providing driving signals to the biresonant MEMS reflector;
obtaining information about tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector at different moments of time;
determining which pixel of the image corresponds to a tilt angle of the biresonant MEMS reflector based on the information about the tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time; and
operating the light source at a power level corresponding to brightness of the pixel.
8. The scanning projector display of claim 7, wherein the biresonant MEMS reflector comprises a feedback circuit coupled to the controller and configured to provide sync signals thereto when a tilt angle of the biresonant MEMS reflector reaches a pre-determined value.
9. The scanning projector display of claim 7, wherein the controller is further configured for determining a parameter of a model defining tilting of the biresonant MEMS reflector as a function of time based on the obtained information about the tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time.
10. A method for controlling a MEMS reflector, the method comprising:
oscillating the MEMS reflector about at least one axis by providing driving signals to the MEMS reflector;
obtaining information about tilt angles of the MEMS reflector at different moments of time; and
evaluating a tilt angle of the MEMS reflector based on the obtained information about the tilt angles of the MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein obtaining the information about the tilt angles of the MEMS reflector for evaluating the tilt angle of the MEMS reflector comprises obtaining sync signals at the different earlier moments of time, the sync signals indicating a pre-determined tilt angle of the MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the MEMS reflector is a biresonant MEMS reflector tiltable about X and Y axes, wherein the controller is further configured for oscillating the biresonant MEMS reflector about X and Y axes by providing driving signals to the biresonant MEMS reflector;
the method further comprising determining a parameter of a model defining tilting of the biresonant MEMS reflector as a function of time based on the obtained information about the tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time; and, optionally
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the model comprises a statistical model defining a probability distribution of the tilt angle of the biresonant MEMS reflector as a function of the tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time; and, optionally
further comprising using a neural network to analyze the obtained information about the tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time to determine the probability distribution of the statistical model; and, optionally further
wherein the neural network is configured to determine the probability distribution of the statistical model based on measurements of tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector about X and Y axes performed in a test setup.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the model comprises a parametric analytical model defining the tilt angle of the biresonant MEMS reflector as a function of the tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the parametric analytical model comprises a model defining cross-coupling between oscillations of the biresonant MEMS reflector about X and Y axes, and, optionally
further comprising using a neural network to analyze the obtained information about the tilt angles of the biresonant MEMS reflector at the different earlier moments of time to determine a parameter of the model defining cross-coupling between oscillations of the biresonant MEMS reflector about X and Y axes.
</claims>
</document>
