<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VITAL METRIX, INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
REICH, ALTON
HEYM, Jason
BAYYUK, Sami
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74061327
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS, SYSTEMS, AND METHODS FOR NONINVASIVE MEASUREMENT OF CARDIOVASCULAR PARAMETERS
</title>

<abstract>
A computer implemented method for noninvasively measuring a cardiovascular parameter of a subject includes splitting time varying pulse plethysmographic or pulse pressure waveform (PW) cycles into individual PW cycles, selecting an individual PW cycle as a query cycle, screening a library of synthetic PW cycles with the query cycle to find a solution PW, and reporting a model parameter associated with the solution PW. A system for monitoring a cardiovascular parameter includes a monitoring device and a computer with software to perform the method.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for noninvasively measuring a cardiovascular parameter of a subject, said method comprising:
splitting a plurality of time varying pulse plethysmographic or pulse pressure waveform (PW) cycles into individual PW cycles by identifying start and end points for said plurality of PW cycles;
selecting an individual PW cycle as a query cycle;
screening a library of synthetic PW cycles with the query cycle using a difference metric calculation to identify at least one synthetic PW cycle as a solution PW cycle that best fits the query cycle; and
reporting one or more model parameters associated with said solution PW cycle as the measured cardiovascular parameter.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein said physiological parameters are selected from stroke volume, heart rate, systolic fraction, inertance, resistance, aortic pressure, central venous pressure, pulmonary pressure, compliance, regurgitation fraction, and combinations thereof.
3. The method of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein said library of synthetic PW cycles is generated by a computational model comprising physiological parameters that include said physiological parameters.
4. The method of any of claims 1 -3, wherein said computational model comprises a segmented computational fluid dynamic model of a cardiovascular system or a lumped parameter model.
5. The method of any of claims 1 -4, wherein said difference metric calculation comprises a multiplied-dimension distance or similarity function kernel operating on the one or more query PW cycles and the synthetic PW cycles to achieve a consensus effect that identifies the solution synthetic PW cycle.
6. The method of any of claims 1 -5, wherein said screening comprises averaging of estimated parameters for K Nearest Neighbor (KNN) queries and adjusting a K factor in the KNN query.
7. The method of any of claims 1 -6, wherein said PW data is photoplethysmogram pulse pressure data.
8. The method of any of claims 1 -7, wherein said selecting an individual cycle comprises applying a quality metric algorithm to one or a plurality of split cycles to select a PW data subset comprising one or more query cycles.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein said applying a quality metric algorithm comprises selecting a split cycle that has, in combination, a high ratio of cycle amplitude to cycle amplitude variability, a minimum localized PW amplitude variability, and a minimum heart rate variability.
10. The method of any of claims 1 -9, comprising:
selecting a plurality of individual cycles as a plurality of query cycles and screening the library of synthetic PW cycles with the plurality of query cycles using a difference metric calculation to identify at least one synthetic PW cycle as a solution PW cycle that best fits the plurality of query cycles.
11. The method of any of claims 1 -9, comprising:
normalizing said individual cycle over a cycle duration to generate a normalized query cycle and
screening a library of synthetic PW cycles with the normalized query cycle using a difference metric calculation to identify at least one synthetic PW cycle as a solution PW cycle that best fits the normalized query cycle; and
wherein the normalized query cycle has the same resolution and is in phase with the library of synthetic PW cycles.
12. The method of claim 11 , wherein a plurality of individual cycles are selected and normalized to produce a plurality of normalized query cycles combined into a continuous series of normalized query cycles.
13. A computer comprising software configured to perform the method of claim 1.
14. A library of computer generated time varying pressure wave cycles, said library comprising a plurality of individual time varying synthetic pressure-wave (PW) cycles wherein:
each PW cycle comprises a series of data points having a resolution of 50 points per cycle or higher in the form of pulse pressure or pulse volume or pulse light absorption versus cycle fraction or time;
each cycle is generated using a computational cardiovascular system model; and the cardiovascular system model comprises model parameters including one or more of stroke volume, heart rate, systolic fraction, compliance, resistance, aortic pressure, central venous pressure, pulmonary pressure, and regurgitation fraction.
15. The library of claim 14, wherein each synthetic PW cycle comprises a series of data points in the form of pulse pressure versus cycle fraction.
16. The library of claim 14, wherein said computational cardiovascular system model is coupled to a photoplethysmogram model linking pulse pressure and pulse volume.
17. A system for monitoring a cardiovascular parameter, said system comprising a pulse oximeter in communication with a computing device comprising a user interface wherein:
the computing device and software are configured to receive plethysmographic waveform data from the pulse oximeter and the computing device comprises software configured to perform the method of claim 1 and to display a value of the cardiovascular parameter on a display of the computing device.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the pulse oximeter and the computing device are configured for the pulse oximeter to be controlled by user input entered into the user interface of the computing device.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing a program that causes a computer to execute a method, said method comprising:
receiving a data set comprising time varying pulse pressure-wave (PW) data or time varying pulse volume-wave data for the subject as input, said dataset comprising a plurality of cycles;
identifying start and end points for the plurality of cycles;
selecting one or more cycles to produce one or more query cycles;
screening a library of synthetic PW cycles with the one or more query PW cycles using a difference metric calculation to identify at least one solution synthetic PW cycle that best fits the one or more query PW cycles; and
reporting one or more model parameters associated with said at least one solution synthetic PW cycle as the measured cardiovascular parameter;
wherein:
said library of synthetic PW cycles is generated by a computational model comprising physiological parameters that include stroke volume and heart rate.
</claims>
</document>
