<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-21
</priority_date>

<assignee>
MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BROWN CHRISTOPHER
CZARNECKI, PAWEL
EBERSOL, CHARLES
NAQUIN, MICHAEL
SCHWARTZ, ERIK
XING, STEVE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71609946
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MAKING USE OF TELEMETRY TRACKING DEVICES TO ENABLE EVENT BASED ANALYSIS AT A LIVE GAME
</title>

<abstract>
In an embodiment, a process to predict a probability of a future event occurring in a present competition includes receiving time-stamped position information of one or more participants in the present competition. The time-stamped position information is captured by a telemetry tracking system during the present competition. The process uses the time- stamped position information to determine a first play situation of the present competition. The process determines, based on at least the first play situation and playing data associated with at least a subset of one or both of a first set of one or more participants and a second set of one or more participants, a prediction of the probability of a first future event occurring at the present competition.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system to predict a probability of a future event occurring in a competition between a first competitor that includes a first set of one or more participants and a second competitor that includes a second set of one or more participants, the system comprising:
a communication interface configured to receive time-stamped position information of one or more participants of one or both of the first set of participant(s) and the second set of participant(s) in the competition, the time-stamped position information captured by a telemetry tracking system during the competition; and
a processor coupled to the communication interface and configured to:
use the time-stamped position information to determine a first play situation of the competition; and
determine, based on at least the first play situation and playing data associated with at least a subset of one or both of the first set of one or more participants and the second set of one or more participants, a prediction of the probability of a first future event occurring at the competition.
2. The system of claim 1 , further comprising an odds management system configured to determine and update predictive odds from future events in real time based at least in part on the prediction of the probability of a first future event occurring at the competition.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising rejecting a user-submitted wager if a timestamp of the user-submitted wager is not synchronized with a timestamp of position information used to determine the prediction.
4. The system of claim 1 , further comprising a situation store configured to cache a situation to reduce processing time associated with using formation classifier.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to transmit the prediction to a display at a client device.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the prediction includes odds or a probability of the first future event occurring.
7. The system of claim 1 , wherein determining the first play situation includes using, at least in part, time-stamped position information of each of the participants in subsets of participants at a given time.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the competition is a live football game and the first future event is at least one of: a scoring event and achieving a next down.
9 The system of claim 1 , wherein the competition is between a first team comprising a first subset of the first set of participants and a second team comprising a second subset of the second set of participants, and the competition is a live sport event.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the playing data includes intrinsic data related to one or more participants in one or both of the first set of participant(s) and the second set of participant(s).
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the playing data includes at least one of: a heart rate measured in real time, a height, an age, a weight, or a draft round pick.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the playing data includes at least one of: team strength, passing success, running success, or red zone offense/defense rating.
13 The system of claim 1 wherein determining the first play situation includes using a set of parameters including at least one of: a current down, a number of seconds remaining in a current half, or yards from an end zone.
14 The system of claim 1 wherein the processor is further configured to determine a pre snap formation using a formation classifier.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a post-snap evolution of play using a formation classifier.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine an expected points model.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine a win probability model.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine a playerbased wins above replacement model.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the first future event includes at least one of: goal, touchdown, score, first down, turnover, number of yards gained or lost, or pass completion.
20 The system of claim 1 , wherein determining a prediction of the probability of a first future event includes using historical playing data of one or more participants in one or both of the first set of participant(s) and the second set of participant(s).
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the historical playing data includes telemetry tracking data from prior competitions.
22. The system of claim 1 , determining a prediction of the probability of a first fiiture event includes using historical playing data of at least one of: a same type of sport or a competition involving the first competitor and the second competitor.
23. A method to predict a probability of a fiiture event occurring in a competition between a first competitor that includes a first set of one or more participants and a second competitor that includes a second set of one or more participants, the method comprising:
receiving time-stamped position information of one or more participants of one or both of the first set of participant(s) and the second set of participant(s) in the competition, the time-stamped position information captured by a telemetry tracking system during the competition;
using the time-stamped position information to determine a first play situation of the competition; and
determining, based on at least the first play situation and playing data associated with at least a subset of one or both of the first set of one or more participants and the second set of one or more participants, a prediction of the probability of a first fiiture event occurring at the competition.
24. A computer program product embodied in a non-transitory computer readable storage medium and comprising computer instructions for:
receiving time-stamped position information of one or more participants of one or both of the first set of participant(s) and the second set of participant(s) in the competition, the time-stamped position information captured by a telemetry tracking system during the competition;
using the time-stamped position information to determine a first play situation of the competition; and
determining, based on at least the first play situation and playing data associated with at least a subset of one or both of the first set of one or more participants and the second set of one or more participants, a prediction of the probability of a first fiiture event occurring at the competition.
</claims>
</document>
