<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F16M11/04,G03B17/56,H04M1/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SELFIE SNAPPER, INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOCI, Denis
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74065843
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTROADHESION DEVICE HOLDER
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed embodiments include an electroadhesion device holder for securing devices to foreign objects and other target surfaces. In various embodiments, the electroadhesion device holder may be incorporated into a device case that removably attaches to a device. The device case may include an integrated power supply for providing power to an electroadhesion device. In various embodiments electroadhesion device holder may be attached directly to a device such as a smartphone or camera. By providing a powered, portable mechanism for securing devices to foreign objects, the electroadhesion device holder may provide a better perspective for viewing a device screen and increase the field of view of a camera.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electroadhesion device holder comprising:
a device case configured to attach to a device; and
an electroadhesion device integrated into the device case, the electroadhesion device including:
a compliant film comprising one or more electrodes disposed in an insulating material, the insulating material including a chemical adhesive applied to at least one side of the insulating material;
a power supply connected to the one or more electrodes;
a sensor integrated into the electroadhesion device, the sensor configured to collect sensor data measuring one or more characteristics of a foreign object; and
a digital switch in communication with the sensor, the digital switch configured to control an adjustable voltage output of the one or more electrodes based on the sensor data,
wherein the adjustable voltage output of the one or more electrodes generates an electroadhesive force that secures the electroadhesion device to the foreign object. 2. The electroadhesion device holder of claim 1, wherein the digital switch controls the adjustable voltage output by operating a voltage converter to generate the adjustable voltage output by converting a low voltage from the power supply into the voltage output. 3. The electroadhesion device holder of claim 2, wherein the digital switch is configured to operate the voltage converter to modify the adjustable voltage output based on one or more characteristics of the foreign object measured by the sensor. 4. The electroadhesion device holder of claim 1, wherein the electroadhesive force secures the electroadhesion device to the foreign object by:
generating the adjustable voltage output at the one or more electrodes;
inducing, by the adjustable voltage output, electric charges on the foreign object; and interfacing the electric charges on the foreign object with opposite electric charges on the one or more electrodes to create an electroadhesive attraction
5. The electroadhesion device holder of claim 1, further comprising:
a sensor actuation mechanism configured to actuate the sensor in response to a manual input received from a user; and
a status light configured to visibly display a status state of the sensor. 6. The electroadhesion device holder of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises an electrode conductivity sensor, induction conductivity sensor, Hall effect sensor, magnetic field sensor, porosity sensor, time domain reflectometry (TDR) porosity sensor, motion sensor, ultrasound sensor, radar sensor, infrared sensor, dot field projection depth sensor, or time of flight depth sensor. 7. The electroadhesion device holder of claim 1, wherein the one or more characteristics of the foreign object includes at least one of conductivity, electrical characteristics, magnetic characteristics, porosity, permeability, surface morphology, surface profile, surface texture, and distance from the sensor. 8. The electroadhesion device holder of claim 1, wherein the foreign object is form from at least one of metal, wood, plastic, ceramic, concreate, drywall, glass, or stone. 9. The electroadhesion device holder of claim 1, wherein the device is a smartphone. 10. The electroadhesion device holder of claim 1, wherein the device is a camera. 11. The electroadhesion device holder of claim 1, further comprising a receiving coil for converting a wireless charging signal into electricity to charge the power supply. 12. A device having an integrated electroadhesion device, the electroadhesion device comprising: a compliant film comprising one or more electrodes disposed in an insulating material, the insulating material including a chemical adhesive applied to at least one side of the insulating material;
a power supply connected to the one or more electrodes;
a sensor integrated into the electroadhesion device, the sensor configured to collect sensor data measuring one or more characteristics of a foreign object; and
a digital switch in communication with the sensor, the digital switch configured to control an adjustable voltage output of the one or more electrodes based on the sensor data,
wherein the adjustable voltage output of the one or more electrodes generates an electroadhesive force that secures the electroadhesion device to the foreign object. 13. The device of claim 12, wherein the digital switch controls the adjustable voltage output by operating a voltage converter to generate the adjustable voltage output by converting a low voltage from the power supply into the voltage output. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein the digital switch is configured to operate the voltage converter to modify the adjustable voltage output based on one or more characteristics of the foreign object measured by the sensor. 14. The device of claim 12, wherein the electroadhesive force secures the electroadhesion device to the foreign object by:
generating the adjustable voltage output at the one or more electrodes;
inducing, by the adjustable voltage output, electric charges on the foreign object; and interfacing the electric charges on the foreign object with opposite electric charges on the one or more electrodes to create an electroadhesive attraction. 15. The device of claim 12, wherein the electroadhesion device is integrated with the device using at least one of a chemical adhesive, a mechanical fastener, a heat fastener, dry adhesion, Velcro, suction adhesion, vacuum adhesion, magnetic tape, and electromagnetic tape.
16. The device of claim 12, wherein the electroadhesion device is removably attached to a surface of the device. 17. The device of claim 12, where in the device is a smartphone, camera, personal computer, laptop, tablet computer, or television. 18. A method of regulating voltage generated by an electroadhesion device holder, the method comprising;
receiving sensor data from one or more sensors of an electroadhesion device integrated into the electroadhesion device holder;
determining one or more characteristics of a foreign object based on the sensor data; generating, by a voltage converter of the electroadhesion device, an adjustable voltage applied to one or more electrodes of the electroadhesion device, wherein the generating is controlled by a digital switch of the electroadhesion device that modifies a strength of the adjustable voltage based on the one or more characteristics of the foreign object; and
attaching the electroadhesion device holder to the foreign object using an electroadhesive force created by interactions between electric charges on the one or more electrodes and opposite electric charges on the foreign object induced by the adjustable voltage. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising;
determining the foreign object is conductive based on the sensor data; and
in response to determining the foreign object is conductive, generating a low adjustable voltage that can safely interface with the conductive foreign object. 20. The method of claim 18, further comprising:
determining the foreign object is insulating based on the sensor data; and
in response to determining the foreign object is insulating, generating a high adjustable voltage that can safely interface with the insulating foreign object.
</claims>
</document>
