<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BABIC, DRAZENKO
LUCASSEN, GERHARDUS
MUELLER, MANFRED
KURANE, Aditee
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70922055
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTRAVASCULAR OPTICAL DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to an intravascular device (10). The device comprises an elongate member (20), an optical fiber (30), and at least one optical interaction element (40). At least a part of the elongate member is configured to be inserted into a part of a vascular system of a patient. At least a part of the optical fiber is located within the elongate member. The optical fiber is configured to transmit optical wavelength radiation. The intravascular device is configured to emit optical wavelength radiation out of the elongate member in at least two optical radiation beams for being scattered and/or reflected by a portion of the vascular system. The emission of the at least two optical radiation beams comprises interaction of the transmitted optical wavelength radiation with the at least one optical interaction element. The intravascular device is configured to collect at least some of the scattered and/or reflected optical wavelength radiation and couple the at least some of the scattered and/or reflected optical wavelength radiation into the optical fiber comprising utilization of the at least one optical interaction element.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An intravascular device (10), comprising:
an elongate member (20);
an optical fiber (30); and
at least one optical interaction element (40);
wherein at least a part of the elongate member (20) is configured to be inserted into a part of a vascular system of a patient;
wherein at least a part of the optical fiber (30) is located within the elongate member (20);
wherein, the optical fiber is configured to transmit optical wavelength radiation;
wherein the intravascular device is configured to emit a portion of the optical wavelength radiation out of the elongate member in at least two optical radiation beams for being scattered and/or reflected by a portion of the vascular system, wherein the emission of the at least two optical radiation beams comprises interaction of the transmitted optical wavelength radiation with the at least one optical interaction element; and
wherein the intravascular device is configured to collect at least some of the scattered and/or reflected optical wavelength radiation and to couple the at least some of the scattered and/or reflected optical wavelength radiation into the optical fiber comprising utilization of the at least one optical interaction element.
2. Device according to claim 1, wherein the at least two optical radiation beams comprises a first optical radiation beam emitted out of a side wall of the elongate member.
3. Device according to claim 2, wherein the at least two optical radiation beams comprises a second optical radiation beam emitted out of the side wall of the elongate member.
4. Device according to claim 3, wherein a wavelength range of the first optical radiation beam is different to a wavelength range of the second optical radiation beam.
5. Device according to any of claims 3-4, wherein the first optical radiation beam is emitted out of the elongate member at a first longitudinal position of the elongate member and the second optical radiation beam is emitted out of the elongate member at a second longitudinal position of the elongate member different to the first longitudinal position.
6. Device according to any of claims 2-5, wherein the at least two optical radiation beams comprises an optical radiation beam emitted out of an end wall of the elongate member.
7. Device according to claim 6, wherein a wavelength range of the first optical radiation beam is different to a wavelength range of the optical radiation beam emitted out of the end wall of the elongate member.
8. Device according to claim 7 when claim 6 is dependent upon any of claims 3- 5, wherein a wavelength range of the second optical radiation beam is different to the wavelength range of the optical radiation beam emitted out of the end of the elongate member.
9. Device according to any of claims 1-8, wherein the at least one optical interaction element comprises a wavelength selective element.
10. Device according to any of claims 1-9, wherein a portion of the optical fiber at a distal end of the optical fiber is fixedly connected to the elongate member; and wherein the at a least a part of the optical fiber located within the elongate member other than the fixed distal end is not fixedly connected to the elongate member.
11. An intravascular device (10), comprising:
an elongate member (20);
an optical fiber (30); and
at least one optical interaction element (40);
wherein at least a part of the elongate member is configured to be inserted into a part of a vascular system of a patient; wherein at least a part of the optical fiber is located within the elongate member;
wherein the optical fiber is configured to transmit optical wavelength radiation;
wherein the intravascular device is configured to emit at least a portion of the optical wavelength radiation out of the elongate member in an optical radiation beam that forms an annular emission profile substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the elongate member for being scattered and/or reflected by a portion of the vascular system, wherein the emission of the optical radiation beam comprises interaction of the transmitted optical wavelength radiation with the at least one optical interaction element; and
wherein the intravascular device is configured to collect at least some of the scattered and/or reflected optical wavelength radiation and couple the at least some of the scattered and/or reflected optical wavelength radiation into the optical fiber comprising utilization of the at least one optical interaction element.
12. An intravascular microcatheter and guidewire device (100), comprising:
a microcatheter (110); and
an intravascular device (10) according to any of claims 1-10 or an intravascular device (100) according to claim 11;
wherein at least a part of the microcatheter is configured to be inserted into the part of the vascular system of the patient;
wherein the microcatheter comprises at least one optically-transmitting wall portion;
wherein the intravascular device is configured to slide within the microcatheter along a longitudinal axis of the microcatheter; and
wherein the microcatheter and intravascular device are configured such that when the intravascular guidewire is positioned at one or more longitudinal positions along the longitudinal axis of the microcatheter, optical wavelength radiation is emitted out of the microcatheter through the at least one optically-transmitting wall portion of the microcatheter and scattered and/or reflected optical wavelength radiation enters the microcatheter through the at least one optically-transmitting wall portion of the microcatheter.
13. An intravascular investigation system (200), comprising:
an intravascular device (10) according to any of claims 1-10, or an
intravascular device (10) according to claim 11, or an intravascular microcatheter and guidewire device (100) according to claim 12;
a optical radiation source (210);
a optical radiation detector (220); and
a processing unit (230);
wherein, the optical radiation source is configured to generate optical wavelength radiation over a broadband range and couple it into the optical fiber;
wherein, the optical radiation detector is configured to generate at least one detection signal on the basis of the scattered and/or reflected optical wavelength radiation;
wherein, the processing unit is configured to determine at least one spectrally resolved data set on the basis of the at least one detection signal; and
wherein, the processing unit is configured to determine information about a blood clot on the basis of the at least one spectrally resolved data set.
14. A method of intravascular investigation with an intravascular investigation system (200) according to claim 13, wherein the method comprises:
generating optical wavelength radiation over a broadband range with the optical radiation source;
coupling the broadband optical wavelength radiation into the optical fiber of the intravascular device or the intravascular microcatheter and guidewire device;
collecting scattered and/or reflected optical wavelength radiation from a vascular structure of the patient with the intravascular device or the intravascular
microcatheter and guidewire device;
generating by the optical wavelength radiation detector at least one detection signal on the basis of the scattered and/or reflected optical wavelength radiation;
determining by the processing unit at least one spectrally resolved data set on the basis of the at least one detection signal; and
determining by the processing unit information about a blood clot on the basis of the at least one spectrally resolved data set.
15. A system (200) for determining the composition of a peripheral venous clot, comprising: an intravascular device for determining blood clot composition in the peripheral vasculature comprising;
an elongate member (20); and
an optical fiber (30);
wherein at least a part of the elongate member is configured to be inserted into a part of a vascular system of a patient;
wherein at least a part of the optical fiber is located within the elongate member;
wherein, the optical fiber is configured to transmit optical wavelength radiation;
wherein the intravascular device is configured to emit a portion of the optical wavelength radiation out of the elongate member for being scattered and/or reflected by a portion of the vascular system;
wherein the intravascular device is configured to collect at least some of the scattered and/or reflected optical wavelength radiation and to couple the at least some of the scattered and/or reflected optical wavelength radiation into the optical fiber; and the system further comprises:
an optical radiation source (210);
an optical radiation detector (220);
and a processing unit (230);
wherein the optical radiation source is configured to generate optical wavelength radiation over a broadband range and couple it into the optical fiber;
wherein the optical radiation detector is configured to generate at least one detection signal on the basis of the scattered and/or reflected optical wavelength radiation;
wherein the processing unit is configured to determine at least one spectrally resolved data set on the basis of the at least one detection signal;
wherein the at least one spectrally resolved data set comprises a spectrum corresponding to collagen; and
wherein the processing unit is configured to determine a collagen content from the spectrum corresponding to collagen and to determine information about a blood clot on the basis of the collagen content.
16. A method of determining the collagen content of a peripheral vascular clot with a system for determining the composition of a peripheral venous clot according to claim 15 for use in determining blood clot composition in the peripheral vasculature the method comprising the steps of:
generating optical wavelength radiation over a broadband range with the optical radiation source;
coupling the broadband optical wavelength radiation into the optical fiber of the intravascular device or the intravascular microcatheter and guidewire device;
collecting scattered and/or reflected optical wavelength radiation from a vascular structure of the patient with the intravascular device or the intravascular microcatheter and guidewire device;
generating by the optical wavelength radiation detector at least one detection signal on the basis of the scattered and/or reflected optical wavelength radiation;
determining by the processing unit at least one spectrally resolved data set on the basis of the at least one detection signal, the at least one spectrally resolved data set comprising a spectrum corresponding to collagen; and
determining by the processing unit a collagen content from the spectrum corresponding to collagen, and information about a blood clot on the basis of the collagen content.
17. A computer program element for controlling a system according to claim 13, which when executed by a processor is configured to carry out the method of claim 14.
18. A computer program element for controlling a system according to claim 15, which when executed by a processor is configured to carry out the method of claim 16.
19. A computer readable medium having stored thereon a computer program as claimed in claim 17 or 18.
</claims>
</document>
