<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BUIL, VINCENTIUS
JOHNSON, MARK
BULUT, MURTAZA
HENNESSY, Mark
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71105450
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRIVACY ENSURING PERSONAL HEALTH RECORD DATA SHARING
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method that receives at an apparatus a request from a first computing device for access to information related to a first user data set; determines, or receives an indication of a determination, whether the first computing device can access the information based on criteria for sharing information, the criteria based on one or more characteristics of the first user data set and a second user data set accessible by the first computing device; and provide a response based on the determination, the response preserving privacy of a user corresponding to the first user data set.
</abstract>

<claims>
At least the following is claimed:
1. A system, comprising:
an apparatus, comprising:
a communications interface configured to enable communications with one or more computing devices;
one or more processors configured by instructions to:
receive a request from a first computing device for access to information related to a first user data set;
determine, or receive an indication of a determination, whether the first computing device can access the information based on criteria for sharing information, the criteria based on one or more characteristics of the first user data set and a second user data set accessible by the first computing device; and
provide a response based on the determination, the response preserving privacy of a user corresponding to the first user data set.
2. The system of claim 1 , wherein the criteria is set rules based or fuzzy rules based.
3. The system of claim 1 , wherein the criteria comprises adaptive criteria.
4. The system of claim 1 , wherein the criteria comprises commonality of one or more users associated with the first user data set and the second user data set according to a first likelihood function, wherein the one or more processors are configured by the instructions to determine, or receive the indication of the
determination, by:
determining, alone or in combination with one or more other devices, or receiving an indication of a determination from the one or more other devices, whether according to the first likelihood function there is a presence of at least one common user among the first user data set and the second user data set, wherein the determination or receipt of the indication of the determination is based on computations performed on an anonymized version of the first and second user data sets.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the at least one common user comprises a user identifier, wherein responsive to an absence of the user identifier in one of the first and second user data sets, the response comprises the one or more processors sharing an anonymized version of the first user data set with the first computing device.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the response is based on the determination or receipt of the indication of the determination of the presence, the response comprising further evaluating access based on additional criteria.
7. The system of claim 4, wherein the one or more processors are configured by the instructions to determine, or receive an indication of a determination, whether the first computing device can access the information further based on additional criteria, wherein the additional criteria comprises identification from the first and second user data sets of the at least one common user according to a second likelihood function.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the one or more processors are further configured by the instructions to provide the response based additionally on whether there is the identification of the at least one common user according to the second likelihood function.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured by the instructions to determine, or receive a determination, that there is a low likelihood of the identification of the at least one common user, wherein the response comprises sharing an anonymized version of the first user data set with the first computing device.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured by the instructions to determine, or receive a determination, that there is a high likelihood of the identification of the at least one common user, the response comprising removal of data, evaluating whether removal of one or more fields of data prevents the identification, or a denial of the request.
1 1. The system of claim 1 , wherein the one or more processors are configured by the instructions to determine the access alone or in combination with one or more other devices, or the one or more processors are configured by the instructions to receive the indication of the determination of the access from the one or more other devices, wherein the one or more other devices includes the first computing device, at least a second computing device, or a combination of the first and the at least a second computing devices.
12. The system of claim 1 , wherein the determination of the access or receipt of the indication of the determination of the access is based on receipt of data from a distributed ledger, based on a multi-party computation method, or based on
computations performed in a trusted execution environment.
13. The system of claim 1 , wherein the determination of the access or the receipt of the indication of the determination of the access comprises a binary output or a fuzzy output.
14. The system of claim 1 , wherein the determination of the access or the receipt of the indication of the determination of the access is based on a determination of a fuzzy function using a third likelihood function, wherein the fuzzy function or the third likelihood function is either pre-set or adaptive.
15. The system of claim 1 , wherein the determination of the access or the receipt of the indication of the determination of the access is based on a data driven approach, the data driven approach for use in derivation of rules or training machine-learning models, wherein the data driven approach comprises computation of a score as a function of weights for respective data in the first and second user data sets.
16. The system of claim 1 , wherein the response comprises one of:
a denial of the request;
removal or denial of access of data corresponding to an identifiable user or users from the first user data set, the removal implemented before sharing;
removal of a first field of data corresponding to the identifiable user or users from the first user data set, the first field of data comprising a portion that permits the user to be identifiable, the removal implemented before sharing;
transmittal of a request to the first computing device for removal of data corresponding to the identifiable user or users from a second user data set, the removal implemented before sharing;
transmittal of a request to the first computing device for removal of a second field of data corresponding to the identifiable user or users from the second user data set, the second field of data comprising a portion that permits the user to be identifiable, the removal implemented before sharing; or
permitting access to the information based on the criteria comprising consent or permission by the user to access the information.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the one or more processors are further configured by the instructions to communicate a request to the first computing device to verify the removal of the data or the second field of data from the second user data set or receive a verification of the removal of the data or the second field of data from the second user data set from a distributed ledger.
18. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to:
receive a request from a first computing device for access to information related to a first user data set; determine, or receive an indication of a determination, whether the first computing device can access the information based on criteria for sharing information, the criteria based on one or more characteristics of the first user data set and a second user data set accessible by the first computing device; and
provide a response based on the determination, the response preserving privacy of a user corresponding to the first user data set.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the determination or the receipt of the indication of the determination is based on receipt of data from a distributed ledger, based on a multi-party computation method, or based on computations performed in a trusted execution environment.
20. A computer-implemented method, comprising:
receiving at an apparatus a request from a first computing device for access to information related to a first user data set;
determining, or receiving an indication of a determination, whether the first computing device can access the information based on criteria for sharing information, the criteria based on one or more characteristics of the first user data set and a second user data set accessible by the first computing device; and
providing a response based on the determination, the response preserving privacy of a user corresponding to the first user data set.
</claims>
</document>
