<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/30,G06F21/31,G06F21/36,G06F21/55
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SUNSTONE INFORMATION DEFENSE
</assignee>

<inventors>
FORD, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73051657
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR INTERFERING WITH AUTOMATED BOTS USING A GRAPHICAL POINTER AND PAGE DISPLAY ELEMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and apparatus for interfering with automated hots using a graphical pointer and page display elements are disclosed. In an example, a processor selects a challenge for display on a client device. The challenge includes a display element and stylized pointer information. The processor causes the display element to be displayed on the client device and a pointer to be stylized, as specified by the pointer information. The processor receives a response message corresponding to at least one of a pointer selection or pointer movement made by the stylized pointer. The processor compares information within the response message to a specified correct location of the display element that is stored in an answer file related to the selected challenge. If the information within the response message is correct, the processor transmits a correct answer message and/or enables webpage content to be displayed or otherwise provided to the client device.
</abstract>

<claims>
The invention is claimed as follows:
1. A hot security apparatus comprising:
a memory device storing a plurality of challenge files for determining if a webpage user is a human or a hot, each of the challenge files including a display element, a user prompt, pointer information, and a location of the display element that corresponds to a correct response;
a security processor communicatively coupled to the memory device, the security processor configured to:
receive an indication message that a webpage of an application server is to be transmitted to a client device,
select a challenge file from the memory device,
transmit at least some information from the challenge file to cause the display element and the user prompt to be displayed on the client device and a pointer to be changed as specified by the pointer information,
receive a response message corresponding to at least one of a pointer selection or pointer movement made by the changed pointer at the client device in relation to the display element,
compare information within the response message to the location corresponding to the correct response for the selected challenge file,
if the information within the response message matches or is included within the location corresponding to the correct response for the selected challenge file, transmit a correct answer message, and
if the information within the response message does not match or is not included within the location corresponding to the correct response for the selected challenge file, transmit an incorrect answer message.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the indication message is received from the application server or a load balancer and includes an identifier of a generic challenge that is related to the webpage, and
wherein the challenge file selected by the security processor corresponds to the generic challenge and the at least some of the information from the challenge file is transmitted to the application server or the load balancer for replacement of the generic challenge.
3. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the indication message is received from the application server and includes the webpage and a generic challenge,
wherein the challenge file selected by the security processor corresponds to the generic challenge, and
wherein the security processor replaces the generic challenge with the at least some of the information from the challenge file and transmits the at least some of the information from the challenge file to at least one of the client device or the application server.
4. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the security processor transmits the correct answer message to the application server, which causes the application server to at least one of transmit the webpage to the client device, transmit a second webpage to the client device, or transmit content related to the webpage to the client device.
5. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the security server transmits the incorrect answer message to the application server, which causes the application server to at least one of terminate a connection to the webpage with the client device, terminate a session with the client device, or block the client device.
6. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the incorrect message includes at least some information from another challenge file that is selected by the security processor for display on the client device.
7. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the display element and the user prompt are displayed in the webpage or in a popup window over the webpage.
8. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the display element is specified in at least one of an image file, a video file, an audio file, a multimedia file, a java file, or a plug-in file, and wherein the display element shows at least one item comprising a person, an animal, a character, a scene, or a vehicle.
9. The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein the display element includes instructions that cause at least part of the shown item to change in appearance in response to a mouse-over or hover by the pointer in relation to a location of the item shown in the display element.
10. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein locations of the display element are specified by coordinates and the location of the correct response includes at least one of a coordinate or a set of coordinates.
11. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the pointer information includes at least one of a pointer file or instructions for changing properties of the pointer at the client device.
12. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the pointer information is specified to correspond to the respective display element of the challenge file.
13. A machine-accessible device having instructions stored thereon that, when executed, cause a machine to at least:
select a challenge for display on a client device, the challenge including a display element, a user prompt, and stylized pointer information that corresponds to the display element;
provide the challenge causing the display element and the user prompt to be displayed on the client device and a pointer to be stylized as specified by the pointer information;
receive a response message corresponding to at least one of a pointer selection or pointer movement made by the stylized pointer at the client device in relation to the display element;
compare information within the response message to a specified correct location of the display element stored in an answer file or field that is related to the selected challenge; if the information within the response message matches or is included within the specified correct location stored in the answer file or field, provide a correct answer message; and
if the information within the response message does not matches or is not included within the specified correct location stored in the answer file or field, provide an incorrect answer message.
14. The machine-accessible device of Claim 13, wherein the challenge or the answer file or field includes a time threshold, and the machine-accessible device has instructions stored thereon that, when executed, cause the machine to at least:
start a timer when the challenge is provided;
if the response message is received before the elapsed time of the timer has reached the time threshold, perform the comparison that uses the information within the response message; and
if the elapsed time of the timer has reached or exceeded the time threshold, determine the challenge was not successfully completed and provide at least one of the incorrect message or a timeout message.
15. The machine-accessible device of Claim 13, wherein the challenge or the answer file or field includes a click threshold, and the machine-accessible device has instructions stored thereon that, when executed, cause the machine to at least:
receive sequential multiple response messages, each response message including a location of the pointer during a pointer selection;
perform the comparison using the information within the earliest, sequentially received response messages that are below or meet the click threshold; and
disregard the response messages that sequentially exceed the click threshold.
16. The machine-accessible device of Claim 13, wherein the response message includes an identifier of the selected challenge, and wherein the identifier is used to determine the answer file or field for the comparison that uses the information within the response message.
17. The machine-accessible device of Claim 13, having instructions stored thereon that, when executed, cause the machine to at least:
determine a generic challenge related to at least one of a webpage or online content for the client device;
select the challenge based on the generic challenge; and
cause the generic challenge to be replaced with the selected challenge.
18. The machine-accessible device of Claim 17, having instructions stored thereon that, when executed, cause the machine to at least provide at least one of the correct answer message or the incorrect answer message to an application server that at least one of (i) hosts the webpage or the online content for the client device, or (ii) transmits the webpage or the online content to the client device.
19. The machine-accessible device of Claim 17, wherein the generic challenge includes metadata identifying content for the challenge, and wherein the challenge is selected based on the metadata.
20. The machine-accessible device of Claim 19, wherein the content identified by the metadata includes at least one of advertising content, a person's name, a product brand, or a challenge type.
21. The machine-accessible device of Claim 13, wherein providing the correct answer message causes at least one of a webpage or content to be provided to or displayed on the client device.
</claims>
</document>
