<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (CHINA) INVESTMENT COMPANY
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
IBM UNITED KINGDOM
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHIDE, MANISH
LOHIA, PRANAY
NATESAN RAMAMURTHY, KARTHIKEYAN
PURI, RUCHIR
SAHA, DIPTIKALYAN
VARSHNEY, KUSH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70970227
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POST-HOC IMPROVEMENT OF INSTANCE-LEVEL AND GROUP-LEVEL PREDICTION METRICS
</title>

<abstract>
A post-processing method, system, and computer program product for post-hoc improvement of instance-level and group-level prediction metrics, including training a bias detector that learns to detect a sample that has an individual bias greater than a predetermined individual bias threshold value with constraints on a group bias, applying the bias detector on a run-time sample to select a biased sample in the run-time sample having a bias greater than the predetermined individual bias threshold bias value, and suggesting a de-biased prediction for the biased sample.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A post-processing computer-implemented method for post-hoc improvement of instance-level and grouplevel prediction metrics, the post-processing method comprising:
training a bias detector that learns to detect a sample that has an individual bias greater than a predetermined individual bias threshold value with constraints on a group bias;
applying, in a run-time, the bias detector on a run-time sample to select a biased sample in the run-time sample having an individual bias greater than the predetermined individual bias threshold value; and
suggesting, in the run-time, a de-biased prediction for the biased sample.
2. The post-processing computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the applying and the suggesting operate in a post-processing and targets the biased sample with individual bias for remediation in order to change bias of the biased sample based both on individual and group fairness metrics.
3. The post-processing computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the individual bias detector is trained by:
perturbing a protected attribute in a training set having the sample;
for each sample point in the training set, obtaining an average individual bias after multiple perturbations;
obtaining a difference in the individual bias for a favorable class;
for an unprivileged group, setting the individual bias as the average individual bias; and
sorting samples in the training set by descending order of the difference in the individual bias to the favorable class.
4. The post-processing computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the suggesting the de-biased prediction is performed by:
perturbing a protected attribute in a training set;
running the perturbed results through a customer model;
picking a most likely prediction for the perturbed results run through the customer model; and changing to the most likely prediction for the perturbed results for an unprivileged group member if this outcome belongs to the favorable class.
5. The post-processing computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a detected individual bias sample among an unprivileged group predicted by the bias detector is prioritized for a correction by the suggesting, wherein the suggesting performs a correction to fix the bias by running perturbed samples through a customer model and picking a most likely prediction, and wherein a user decides whether to choose an original value of the bias or the suggested de-biased prediction.
6. The post-processing computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the perturbations are performed across protected attributes and an aggregate outcome is determined.
7. The post-processing computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein an outcome among multiple classes is chosen by one of:
looking at an aggregate prediction for each class after perturbations; and
finding a most likely predicted outcome after the perturbations.
8. The post-processing computer-implemented method of claim 1 , wherein, during the training, the bias detector is trained by:
implementing an individual bias checker that perturbs a protected attribute in payload data for unprivileged group samples;
computes individual bias scores for unprivileged group samples by finding a difference between a probability of a favorable outcome for the perturbed and original data;
flagging the unprivileged group samples that have the individual bias greater than the predetermined individual bias threshold value; and
training the bias detector to discriminate between the flagged samples and un-flagged samples.
9. The post-processing computer-implemented method of claim 1 , wherein, during the run-time:
the applying applies the bias detector on each unprivileged group sample in the run-time to compute a likelihood of the individual bias;
further testing the individually biased sample by perturbing a protected attribute and checking the outcome after perturbation; and
if the outcome after the perturbation is different from an original outcome, suggesting an individually biased sample as a de-biased prediction to an arbiter, which can choose between the original value of the bias and a debiased prediction.
10. The post-processing computer-implemented method of claim 1 , embodied in a cloud-computing environment.
11. A post-processing computer program product for post-hoc improvement of instance-level and group-level prediction metrics, the computer program product comprising a computer-readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform:
training a bias detector that learns to detect a sample that has an individual bias greater than a predetermined individual bias threshold value with constraints on a group bias;
applying, in a run-time, the bias detector on a run-time sample to select a biased sample in the run-time sample having an individual bias greater than the predetermined individual bias threshold value; and
suggesting, in the run-time, a de-biased prediction for the biased sample.
12. The post-processing computer program product of claim 11, wherein the applying and the suggesting operate in a post-processing that targets the biased sample with individual bias for remediation in order to change bias of the biased sample based both on individual and group fairness metrics.
13. The post-processing computer program product of claim 11, wherein the individual bias detector is trained by:
perturbing a protected attribute in a training set having the sample;
for each sample point in the training set, obtaining an average individual bias after multiple perturbations; obtaining a difference in the individual bias for a favorable class;
for the privileged group, setting the individual bias as the original detected individual bias;
for an unprivileged group, setting the individual bias as the average individual bias; and
sorting samples in the training set by descending order of the difference in the individual bias to the favorable class.
14. The post-processing computer program product of claim 11, wherein the suggesting the de-biased prediction is performed by:
perturbing a protected attribute in a training set;
running the perturbed results through a customer model;
picking a most likely prediction for the perturbed results run through the customer model; and changing the most likely prediction for the perturbed results for an unprivileged group member to a result for a favorable class.
15. The post-processing computer program product of claim 11 , wherein, if the bias detector returns that a particular sample has bias, then that sample is de-biased.
16. The post-processing computer program product of claim 11, wherein a highest individual bias sample among an unprivileged group predicted by the bias detector is prioritized for a correction by the suggesting, wherein the suggesting performs a correction to fix the bias by running perturbed samples through a customer model and picking a most likely prediction, and
wherein a user decides whether to choose an original value of the bias or the suggested de-biased prediction.
17. A post-processing system for post-hoc improvement of instance-level and group-level prediction metrics, said system comprising:
a processor; and
a memory, the memory storing instructions to cause the processor to perform:
training a bias detector that learns to detect a sample that has an individual bias greater than a predetermined individual bias threshold value with constraints on a group bias;
applying, in a run-time, the bias detector on a run-time sample to select a biased sample in the run-time sample having an individual bias greater than the predetermined individual bias threshold value; and
suggesting, in the run-time, a de-biased prediction for the biased sample.
18. The post-processing system of claim 17, embodied in a cloud-computing environment.
19. A post-processing computer-implemented method for post-hoc improvement of instance-level and grouplevel prediction metrics, the post-processing method comprising:
applying a trained detector on a run-time sample to select a sample in the run-time sample having a value greater than the predetermined individual threshold value; and
suggesting a changed prediction for the sample.
20. The post-processing computer-implemented method of claim 19, wherein the applying and the suggesting operate in a post-processing that targets the sample with the individual value for remediation in order to change the value of the sample based both on individual and group fairness metrics.
21. The post-processing computer-implemented method of claim 19, wherein the trained detector is received as a complete black-box.
22. The post-processing computer-implemented method of claim 19, wherein the applying comprises a pure run-time approach that does not require ground truth class labels for a validation set.
23. A post-processing computer-implemented method for post-hoc improvement of instance-level and grouplevel prediction metrics, the post-processing method comprising:
testing each sample from an unprivileged group for an individual bias; and assigning an outcome of a privileged group to the sample if the sample has a bias greater than a predetermined individual bias threshold bias value.
24. The post-processing computer-implemented method of claim 23, wherein the unprivileged group received the outcome based on the individual bias according to a classification of the unprivileged group.
25. The post-processing computer-implemented method of claim 23, wherein the outcome of samples in the privileged group are unchanged by the assigning.
</claims>
</document>
