<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F12/00,G06F15/173,G06F17/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRIEDER, OPHIR
MELE, Ida
TONELLOTTO, Nicola
PEREGO, Raffaele
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68766191
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CACHE OPTIMIZATION VIA TOPICS IN WEB SEARCH ENGINES
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments may provide a cache for query results that can adapt the cache-space utilization to the popularity of the various topics represented in the query stream. For example, a method for query processing may perform receiving a plurality of queries for data, determining at least one topic associated with each query, and requesting data responsive to each query from a data cache comprising a plurality of partitions, including at least a static cache partition, a dynamic cache partition, and a temporal cache partition, the temporal cache partition may store data based on a topic associated with the data, and may be further partitioned into a plurality of topic portions, each portion may store data relating to an associated topic, wherein the associated topic may be selected from among determined topics of queries received by the computer system, and the data cache may retrieve data for the queries from the computer system.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for query processing implemented in a computer system comprising a processor, a memory adapted to store program instructions and data, and program instructions executable by the processor to perform:
receiving a plurality of queries for data;
determining at least one topic associated with each query; and
requesting data responsive to each query from a data cache comprising a plurality of partitions, wherein there are at least a static cache partition, a dynamic cache partition, and a temporal cache partition, wherein the temporal cache partition is adapted to store data based on a topic associated with the data, wherein the temporal cache partition is further partitioned into a plurality of topic portions, each portion adapted to store data relating to an associated topic, wherein the associated topic is selected from among determined topics of queries received by the computer system, and wherein the data cache is adapted to retrieve data responsive to at least some queries from the computer system.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein each topic portion is further partitioned into a static portion adapted to store data entries indefinitely, and into a dynamic portion adapted to store data entries until each least recently used data entry is replaced by a newer data entry.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the topic portion is further recursively partitioned with further refinements of the topic into corresponding sub-topics.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one topic associated with each query is determined using a Latent Dirichlet Allocation.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the temporal cache partition is adapted to be trained using a plurality of training queries associated with a plurality of topics.
6. A system for query processing comprising:
a computer system comprising a processor, a memory adapted to store program instructions and data, and program instructions executable by the processor to receive a plurality of queries for data, to determine at least one topic associated with each query, and to request data responsive to each query from a data cache;
the data cache comprising a plurality of partitions, wherein there are at least a static cache partition, a dynamic cache partition, and a temporal cache partition,
wherein the temporal cache partition is adapted to store data based on a topic associated with the data,
wherein the temporal cache partition is further partitioned into a plurality of topic portions, each portion adapted to store data relating to an associated topic, wherein the associated topic is selected from among determined topics of queries received by the computer system, and wherein the data cache is adapted to retrieve data responsive to at least some queries from the computer system.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein each topic portion is further partitioned into a static portion adapted to store data entries indefinitely, and into a dynamic portion adapted to store data entries until each least recently used data entry is replaced by a newer data entry.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the topic portion is further recursively partitioned with further refinements of the topic into corresponding sub-topics.
9. The system of claim 6, wherein the at least one topic associated with each query is determined using a Latent Dirichlet Allocation.
10. The system of claim 6, wherein the temporal cache partition is adapted to be trained using a plurality of training queries associated with a plurality of topics.
11. A computer program product for query processing, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer, to cause the computer to perform a method comprising:
receiving a plurality of queries for data;
determining at least one topic associated with each query; and
requesting data responsive to each query from a data cache comprising a plurality of partitions, wherein there are at least a static cache partition, a dynamic cache partition, and a temporal cache partition, wherein the temporal cache partition is adapted to store data based on a topic associated with the data, wherein the temporal cache partition is further partitioned into a plurality of topic portions, each portion adapted to store data relating to an associated topic, wherein the associated topic is selected from among determined topics of queries received by the computer system, and wherein the data cache is adapted to retrieve data responsive to at least some queries from the computer system.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein each topic portion is further partitioned into a static portion adapted to store data entries indefinitely, and into a dynamic portion adapted to store data entries until each least recently used data entry is replaced by a newer data entry.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the topic portion is further recursively partitioned with further refinements of the topic into corresponding sub-topics.
14. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the at least one topic associated with each query is determined using a Latent Dirichlet Allocation.
15. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the temporal cache partition is adapted to be trained using a plurality of training queries associated with a plurality of topics.
</claims>
</document>
