<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C19/62,G02B6/02,H01S3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA
</assignee>

<inventors>
PAU STANLEY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72941234
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OPTICAL GYROSCOPE WITH GAIN MEDIUM AND CIRCULATING LIGHT
</title>

<abstract>
Devices and associated methods for measuring orientation using an optical gyroscope are disclosed. One example optical gyroscope includes a spherical component configured to allow propagation of light in one or more confined modes inside the spherical component. The spherical component includes a gain medium for enhancing a sustained confinement of light within the spherical component. The optical gyroscope also includes one or more detectors positioned outside of the spherical component to detect at least one characteristic of the light, or a change thereto, in response to a rotation of the optical gyroscope.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An optical gyroscope, comprising:
a spherical component configured to allow propagation of light in one or more confined modes inside the spherical component, the spherical component comprising a gain medium for enhancing a sustained confinement of light within the spherical component; and one or more detectors positioned outside of the spherical component to detect at least one characteristic of the light, or a change thereto, in response to a rotation of the optical gyroscope.
2. The optical gyroscope of claim 1, wherein the spherical component comprises a glass material that is uniformly doped with the gain material.
3. The optical gyroscope of claim 2, wherein the gain material comprises one of erbium, ytterbium, or neodymium.
4. The optical gyroscope of claim 1, further comprising a cladding that surrounds the spherical component, the cladding having a refractive index that is smaller than a refractive index of the spherical component.
5. The optical gyroscope of claim 4, wherein the cladding has one of the following geometries: a spherical, or a rectangular geometry.
6. The optical gyroscope of claim 1, wherein the spherical component is configured to allow light inside the spherical component to propagate in a whispering gallery mode that is confined substantially at an equator of the spherical component based on total internal reflection.
7. The optical gyroscope of claim 1, wherein the light that propagates in the one or more confined modes inside the spherical component is at a peak intensity at a radial position inside the spherical component that is closer to an outer surface of the spherical component than the center of the spherical component.
8. The optical gyroscope of claim 1, further including a light source that is coupled to the spherical component to continually or periodically replenish the light that propagates inside the spherical component.
9. The optical gyroscope of claim 8, further comprising a cladding that surrounds the spherical component, wherein the light source is configured to deliver the light to the cladding that subsequently propagates to the spherical component.
10. The optical gyroscope of claim 9, wherein the light from the light source is delivered through an optical fiber to the cladding.
11. The optical gyroscope of claim 9, wherein the light from the light source is coupled to the cladding through evanescent waves.
12. The optical gyroscope of claim 1, wherein one or more of the following characteristics of the propagating light inside the spherical component remains unchanged upon rotation of the optical gyroscope: (a) a rotation direction, (b) a polarization parameter, (c) an intensity value (d) a position, or (e) a shape.
13. The optical gyroscope of claim 1, wherein the propagating light inside the spherical component in the one or more confined modes provides a reference orientation for the optical gyroscope.
14. The optical gyroscope of claim 1, wherein the one or more detectors include a camera that is configured to rotate with the gyroscope and is positioned to capture images of the light that propagates inside the spherical component, wherein one or more of (a) an intensity, (b) a shape or (c) a polarization parameter of the light that is captured by the camera changes based on an amount or direction of rotation of the gyroscope.
15. The optical gyroscope of claim 1, wherein the one or more detectors include one or more of: a polarization-sensitive camera, a point detector, a detector array or a camera.
16. The optical gyroscope of claim 1, wherein the one or more detectors comprise a plurality of detectors that are positioned at a corresponding plurality of positions around the spherical component.
17. The optical gyroscope of claim 16, wherein each of the plurality of detectors is positioned at a comer of a tetrahedron surrounding the spherical component.
18. The optical gyroscope of claim 16, wherein the plurality of detectors consists of 8 detectors.
19. The optical gyroscope of claim 16, wherein, upon rotation of the optical gyroscope, an associated rotation value is determined based on detected intensities from the plurality of detectors.
20. The optical gyroscope of claims 16, wherein, upon rotation of the optical gyroscope, an associated rotation value is determined based on detected polarization parameters from the plurality of detectors.
21. The optical gyroscope of claim 1, wherein, upon rotation of the optical gyroscope, an associated rotation value is determined based on one or more detected images of the light that propagates inside the spherical component.
22. The optical gyroscope of claim 1, wherein a rotation value of the optical gyroscope is determined using one or more of curve fitting, interpolation, extrapolation or machine learning processing conducted based on calibration information.
23. The optical gyroscope of claim 22, wherein the calibration information includes one or more of (a) stored images of light circulation patterns, (b) stored polarization parameters, (c) stored intensity values, or (d) formulaic relationships of the calibration information.
24. A method for determining an orientation value using an optical gyroscope, comprising:
rotating the optical gyroscope from a first position to a second position, the optical gyroscope comprising: a spherical component configured to allow propagation of light in one or more confined modes inside the spherical component, the spherical component comprising a gain medium for enhancing a sustained confinement of light within the spherical component, and one or more detectors positioned outside of the spherical component;
determining at least one characteristic of the light that is captured by the one or more detectors in response to the rotation of the gyroscope; and
determining an amount of rotation of the gyroscope based on the determined characteristic.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the at least one characteristic includes one or more of:
(a) polarization parameters obtained by the one or more detectors,
(b) intensity values obtained by the one or more detectors, or
(c) one or more images of the propagating light in one or more confined modes inside the spherical component.
26. The method of claim 24, comprising determining the amount of rotation of the gyroscope using a set of calibration data indicative of a correspondence between rotation values of the gyroscope and stored parameters associated with the characteristic.
27. An optical gyroscope, comprising:
a spherical component configured to allow propagation of light in a confined mode inside the spherical component, the spherical component comprising a gain medium for enhancing a sustained confinement of light within the spherical component; and
one or more detectors positioned outside of the spherical component to detect at least one of the following in response to a rotation of the gyroscope:
(a) differing intensity values detected at two or more of the detectors that are positioned spatially apart around the spherical component;
(b) a change in a polarization parameter of the light that is detected by the one or more detectors, or
(c) a change in a detected geometrical profile of the light captured by the one or more detectors that includes a change from any one of a circular, an elliptical or a linear profile to another one of the circular, elliptical or the linear profile.
</claims>
</document>
