<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G16H10/60,G16H20/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIMPSX TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SIMPSON, ERIC M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63711177
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR OPTIMIZED FOODS USING BIOMARKER DATA AND FITTING MODELS
</title>

<abstract>
A computer implemented method for use in conjunction with a computing device, system, network, and cloud with touch screen two dimension display or augmented/mixed reality three dimension display comprising: obtaining, analyzing and detecting user blood, saliva, hair, urine, stool, fingernail, height, weight and skin sampling analysis chemistry data, mapping the blood, saliva, hair, urine, stool, fingernail, height, weight and skin data into a database associated with a specific user, applying the data with optimization equations, mapping equations to food and beverage chemistry, scoring or ranking a plurality of optimized results such that a user may order food and beverage from a food/beverage distribution point or have food/beverage delivered to the user which has been specifically optimized for their specific biochemistry characteristic target ranges.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising:
receiving biomarker data corresponding to a user;
receiving nutritional data corresponding to a plurality of food ingredients;
determining one or more optimized foods for the user based on the biomarker data, the nutritional data, and one or more machine learning fitting models, wherein the one or more optimized foods are configured to increase or decrease a plurality of biomarker values of the user to a plurality of target ranges; and
generating a display of the one or more optimized foods to the user.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the biomarker data comprises complete blood count data, red blood cell data, white blood cell data, platelets data, hemoglobin data, hematocrit data, mean corpuscular volume data, blood chemistry tests data, basic metabolic panel data, blood glucose data, calcium data, electrolytes data, kidneys data, blood enzyme test data, troponin data, creatine kinase data, cholesterol data, LDL cholesterol data, HDL cholesterol data, triglyceride data, lipoprotein panel data, coagulation panel data, echocardiogram data, nuclear perfusion study data, magnetic resonance imaging data, positron emission tomography data, or combinations thereof.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein the nutritional data comprises fat data, sugar data, caloric data, or combinations thereof.
4. The method of claim 1 , wherein generating the display comprises:
determining node rankings for the one or more optimized foods based on the one or more machine learning fitting models; and
generating a display of the node rankings to the user.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein determining the node rankings comprises determining the node rankings based on a ratio of a respective biomarker value to a variance of the respective biomarker value.
6. The method of claim 1 , further comprising:
receiving a search query input data from the user, wherein the search query input data corresponds to the plurality of food ingredients; and
determining the one or more optimized foods for the user based on the search query input data, the biomarker data, the nutritional data, and the one or more machine learning fitting models.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising:
receiving user selection data of the one or more optimized foods, wherein the user selection data corresponds one or more selections by the user of the one or more optimized foods; and generating a display of one or more recipes, one or more delivery options, or combinations thereof to the user.
8. The method of claim 1 , wherein the one or more machine learning fitting models comprises one or more linear regression models, one or more logistic regression models, one or more linear discriminant analysis models, one or more classification or regression tree models, one or more naive Bayes models, one or more learning vector quantization models, one or more posterior density function models, one or more independent stochastic regressor models, one or more general stochastic regression models, one or more general non-linear hypothesis models, or combinations thereof.
9. The method of claim 1 , wherein the one or more optimized foods comprise a subset of the plurality of food ingredients.
10. The method of claim 1 , wherein the plurality of biomarker values comprises a plurality of values corresponding to complete blood count data, red blood cell data, white blood cell data, platelets data, hemoglobin data, hematocrit data, mean corpuscular volume data, blood chemistry tests data, basic metabolic panel data, blood glucose data, calcium data, electrolytes data, kidneys data, blood enzyme test data, troponin data, creatine kinase data, cholesterol data, LDL cholesterol data, HDL cholesterol data, triglyceride data, lipoprotein panel data, coagulation panel data, echocardiogram data, nuclear perfusion study data, magnetic resonance imaging data, positron emission tomography data, or combinations thereof.
1 1 . The method of claim 1 , further comprising:
receiving location data corresponding to the user; and
determining the one or more optimized foods for the user based on the location data, the biomarker data, the nutritional data, and the one or more machine learning fitting models.
12. The method of claim 1 , further comprising:
receiving consumption data corresponding to food and beverage consumption by the user; and
determining the one or more optimized foods for the user based on the consumption data, the biomarker data, the nutritional data, and the one or more machine learning fitting models.
13. The method of claim 1 , further comprising determining one or more health care costs based on the biomarker data and the one or more machine learning fitting models.
14. A computing system, comprising:
one or more processors; and one or more memory comprising program instructions executable by the one or more processors to:
receive biomarker data corresponding to a user;
receive nutritional data corresponding to a plurality of food ingredients; determine one or more optimized foods for the user based on the biomarker data, the nutritional data, and one or more machine learning fitting models, wherein the one or more optimized foods are configured to increase or decrease a plurality of biomarker values of the user to a plurality of target ranges; and
generate a display of the one or more optimized foods to the user.
15. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the one or more memory comprising program instructions executable by the one or more processors to generate the display further comprises program instructions executable by the one or more processors to:
determine node rankings for the one or more optimized foods based on the one or more machine learning fitting models and based on a ratio of a respective biomarker value to a variance of the respective biomarker value; and
generate a display of the node rankings to the user.
16. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the one or more memory further comprises program instructions executable by the one or more processors to:
receive a search query input data from the user, wherein the search query input data corresponds to the plurality of food ingredients; and
determine the one or more optimized foods for the user based on the search query input data, the biomarker data, the nutritional data, and the one or more machine learning fitting models.
17. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the one or more machine learning fitting models comprises one or more linear regression models, one or more logistic regression models, one or more linear discriminant analysis models, one or more classification or regression tree models, one or more naive Bayes models, one or more learning vector quantization models, one or more posterior density function models, one or more independent stochastic regressor models, one or more general stochastic regression models, one or more general non-linear hypothesis models, or combinations thereof.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon a plurality of computerexecutable instructions which, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to:
receive biomarker data corresponding to a user;
receive nutritional data corresponding to a plurality of food ingredients;
determine one or more optimized foods for the user based on the biomarker data, the nutritional data, and one or more machine learning fitting models, wherein the one or more optimized foods are configured to increase or decrease a plurality of biomarker values of the user to a plurality of target ranges; and
generate a display of the one or more optimized foods to the user.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the plurality of computerexecutable instructions which, when executed by a computer, further cause the computer to:
receive a search query input data from the user, wherein the search query input data corresponds to the plurality of food ingredients; and
determine the one or more optimized foods for the user based on the search query input data, the biomarker data, the nutritional data, and the one or more machine learning fitting models.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the one or more machine learning fitting models comprises one or more linear regression models, one or more logistic regression models, one or more linear discriminant analysis models, one or more classification or regression tree models, one or more naive Bayes models, one or more learning vector quantization models, one or more posterior density function models, one or more independent stochastic regressor models, one or more general stochastic regression models, one or more general nonlinear hypothesis models, or combinations thereof.
</claims>
</document>
