<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/00,G06Q10/08,G06Q50/28,G06Q50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BERKSHIRE GREY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WAGNER, THOMAS
COHEN, BENJAMIN
SCHNEIDER, ABRAHAM
ROMANO, JOSEPH
MARONEY, KYLE
GEYER, CHRISTOPHER
KOLETSCHKA, THOMAS
MCMAHAN, WILLIAM CHU-HYON
AMEND, JOHN RICHARD
KUMAR, LAKSHMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68583500
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DYNAMIC PROCESSING OF OBJECTS WITH DATA VERIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
A processing system for processing objects is disclosed that includes a plurality' of receiving stations for receiving a plurality of objects, each object being associated with prerecorded daia, and a plurality of processing stations, each of winch is in communication with at least one processing station. Each processing station includes perception means for perceiving data regarding an identity of any of an object or a bin of objects, and capture means for capturing characteristic data regarding an object to provide captured data. Each processing station further includes comparison means for comparing the captured data with the prerecorded data to provide comparison data, and a plurality of distribution stations, each, of which is in communication with at least one processing station for receiving objects from the at least one processing station responsive to the comparison data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A processing system for processing objects, said processing system comprising: a plurality of receiving stations for receiving a plurality of objects, each object being associated with prerecorded data;
a plurality of processing stations, each of which is in communication with at least one processing station, wherein each processing station includes:
perception means for perceiving data regarding an identity of any of an object or a bin of objects, and
capture means for capturing characteristic data regarding an object to provide captured data;
comparison means for comparing the captured data with the prerecorded data to provide comparison data; and
a plurality of distribution stations, each of which is in communication with at least one processing station for receiving objects from the at least one processing station responsive to the comparison data.
2. lire processing system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said prerecorded data is provided by a sender of the object.
3. The processing system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said prerecorded data is provided by a distribution system manifest.
4. The processing system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said captured data includes data regarding any of size, volume, density, weight and shape.
5. The processing system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said capture means includes a volumetric scanner.
6. The processing system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said capture means includes an edge detection system.
The processing system as claimed claim 1, wherein said capture means include a weight detection system .
8. The processing system as claims in claim 7, wherein the weight detection system includes load cells.
9. The processing system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the load cells are provided on a reciprocating carriage.
10. The processing system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the reciprocating carriage is adapted to selectively discharge any contents.
1 1. A method of processing objects, said method comprising the steps of
receiving a plurality of objects, each object being associated with prerecorded data; providing a plurality of processing stations, each of which is in communication with at least one processing station, including perceiving data regarding an identity of any of an object or a bin of objects, and capturing characteristic data regarding an object to provide captured data;
comparing die captured data with the prerecorded data to provide comparison data; and providing a plurality of distribution stations, each of which is in communication with at least one processing station for receiving objects from the at least one processing station responsive to the comparison data.
12. The method as claimed in claim 1 1, wherein said prerecorded data is provided by a sender of the object.
13. The method as claimed in claim 11 , wherein said prerecorded data is provided by a distribution system manifest.
14. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein said step of capturing characteristic data includes capturing data regarding any of size, volume, density, weight and shape.
15. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein said step of capturing characteristic data includes capturing data using a volumetric scanner.
16. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein said step of capturing characteristic data involves an edge detection system.
17. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein said step of capturing characteristic data includes determining a weight of an object.
18. The method as claims in claim 17, wherein said step of capturing characteristic data involves using ioad cells.
19. The method as claimed in claim 18, wherein the load cells are provided on a reciprocating carriage.
20. The method as claimed in claim 19, wherein the reciprocating carriage is adapted to selectively discharge any contents.
21. An object processing verification system comprising:
a data repository for storing information about objects including: identifying information, object weight, object volume, and destination information;
a first detection system that detects identifying information associated with the object; a second detection system that detects a volume associated with the object;
a third detection system that detects a weight associated with the object;
a computer processing system for comparing the detected identifying information, volume and weight with the volume and weight of the identified object that is stored in the data repository'; and
an object transportation system that routes an object to an advancement destination if the object's detected volume and weight match the stored volume and weight, and to an examination destination if the detected volume and weight do not closely enough match the stored volume and weight.
22. The object processing verification of claim 21, where the computer processing system calculates the volume of an object by detecting a first volume before the object is removed from a volume detection location, detecting a second volume after the object is removed from a volume detection location, and subtracting the second volume from the first volume.
23. The object processing verification of claim 21, wherein the third detection system includes a shutle having at least one load cell for detecting the weigh t of an object held therein, wherein the shuttle has an object holding area to hold an object, and an object base that supports the object holing area and moves the shuttle to an advancement destination or an examination destination.
24. The object processing verification of claim 23 wherein the load cells are located on the base of the shuttle.
25. The o faj ect processing verification of claim 23 w herein the obj ect holding area is hinged about a pivot to allow an object held therein to be deposited from the shuttle into a destination area, wherein the load cells are located between the pivot and the object holding area.
26. The object processing verification of claim 23 wherein the object holding area includes a weighing plate and a base plate, wherein an object is help on the base plate, and load cells are located on a between the weighing plate and the base plate.
27. The object processing verification system as in claim 1 wherein the first detection system detects one or more of the object's shape, a barcode, an RFID signal, and a label.
28. The object processing verification system of claim 21 wherein the data repositor also stores infonnation regarding an object's source, price, packaging, dunnage.
29. The object processing verification system of claim 28, wherein die detected volume can be used to determine the packaging size needed to ship an object, and the amount of dunnage required to secure the object in said package.
30. The object processing verification system of claim 28, wherein the detected weight and volume can be used to determine the accuracy of an object's price, shipping costs from a source, shipping costs to a destination, or packaging and dunnage cost.
31. The object processing verification system of claim 21, wherein the system includes a multi -pick identification system for identifying whether a pick includes more than one object.
32. The object processing verification system as claimed in claim 31, wherein the multi pick identification system determines whether the pick includes more than one object using vacuum sensors.
33. The object processing verification system as claimed in claim 31, wherein the multipick identification system determines whether tire pick includes more than one object using air flow' sensors.
34. The object processing verification system as claimed in claim 31, wherein the multi pick identification system determines whether die pick includes more than one object using weight detection.
35. The object processing verification system as claimed in claim 31, wherein the multi pick identification system determines whether the pick includes more than one object using image processing of images of tire object volume.
36 The object processing verification system as claimed in claim 31, wherein the multi pick identification system determines whether the pick includes more than one object and whether the more than one object may be processed together as a unit.
</claims>
</document>
