<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/00,G06F7/04,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALEXANDER, ROBERT
MARTINEZ-CONDE, SUSANA
MACKNIK, STEPHEN
BRUNET, NICOLAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69643699
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR INTER-INDIVIDUAL DISCRIMINATION BASED ON OCULOMOTOR KINEMATICS
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a method of granting access, including compiling a training profile of each of two or more persons, wherein the training profile includes one or more oculomotor features exhibited during one or more tasks, associating a training profile of one of the two or more persons with a permission, detecting a testing profile of one of the two or more persons, wherein the testing profile includes one or more of the one or more oculomotor features exhibited by during one or more of the one or more tasks, identifying a target profile, granting access if and only if the target profile is associated with the permission, wherein the one or more tasks are selected from fixation, saccade speed, saccade accuracy, visually-guided saccades, anti-saccades, memory-guided saccades, free viewing, pursuit.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of granting access, comprising
compiling a training profile of each of two or more subjects, wherein the training profile comprises one or more oculomotor features exhibited during one or more tasks,
associating a training profile of one of the two or more subjects with a permission, detecting a testing profile of one of the two or more subjects, wherein the testing profile comprises one or more of the one or more oculomotor features exhibited during one or more of the one or more tasks,
identifying a target profile, wherein the target profile is the training profile of the one or more subjects closest to the testing profile, wherein identifying comprises performing a k-nearest neighbor analysis and k = 1, and
granting access if and only if the target profile is associated with a permission, wherein the one or more tasks are selected from the group consisting of fixation, saccade speed, saccade accuracy, visually-guided saccades, anti-saccades, memory-guided saccades, free viewing, pursuit, and any combination of two or more of the foregoing, and
detecting comprises observing features wherein features are selected from the group consisting of one or any combination of two or more fixation features if one of the one or more tasks comprises fixation, one or any combination of two or more saccade speed features if one of the one or more tasks comprises saccade speed, one or any combination of two or more saccade accuracy features if one of the one or more tasks comprises saccade accuracy, one or any combination of two or more visually-guided saccades features if one of the one or more tasks comprises visually-guided saccades, one or any combination of two or more anti-saccades features if one of the one or more tasks comprises anti-saccades, one or any combination of two or more memory-guided saccades features if one of the one or more tasks comprises memoryguided saccades, one or any combination of two or more free viewing features if one of the one or more tasks comprises free viewing, one or any combination of two or more pursuit features if one of the one or more tasks comprises pursuit, and any combination of two or more of the foregoing.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises fixation.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises saccade speed.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises saccade accuracy.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises visuallyguided saccades.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises anti-saccades.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises memory guided saccades.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises free viewing.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises pursuit.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein the one or more tasks comprise fixation, saccade speed, saccade accuracy, visually-guided saccades, anti-saccades, memory-guided saccades, free viewing, and pursuit.
11. The method of any one of claims 1 through 10, wherein each of the one or more tasks has a training duration and a testing duration and the training duration and the testing duration of one or more of the tasks is between two seconds and three minutes.
12. The method of claim 2, wherein the task has a testing duration and the testing duration is between one minute and three minutes.
13. The method of claim 2, wherein the task has a testing duration and the testing duration is between thirty seconds and one minute.
14. The method of claim 2, wherein the task has a testing duration and the testing duration is between ten seconds and thirty seconds.
15. The method of claim 2, wherein the task has a testing duration and the testing duration is between two seconds and ten seconds.
16. The method of any one of claims 3 through 9, wherein each of the one or more tasks has a training duration and a testing duration and the training duration and the testing duration of one or more of the tasks is between two seconds and three minutes.
17. The method any one of claims 3 through 9, wherein the task has a testing duration and the testing duration is between one minute and three minutes.
18. The method any one of claims 3 through 9, wherein the task has a testing duration and the testing duration is between thirty seconds and one minute.
19. The method of any one of the previous claims, wherein granting access comprises unlocking a computing device, unlocking a door, starting a device, displaying permissionprotected information on a screen, or enabling use of a permission-protected application on a computing device.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein granting access comprises unlocking a computing device, unlocking a door, starting a device, displaying permission-protected information on a screen, or enabling use of a permission-protected application on a computing device.
21. A system for performing the method of any one of the previous claims, comprising a device for measuring eye movement, a memory for storing the training profiles and testing profile, and a computer for determining the one or more oculomotor features and identifying the target profile.
22. A system for performing the method of claim 11, comprising a device for measuring eye movement, a memory for storing the training profiles and testing profile, and a computer for determining the one or more oculomotor features and identifying the target profile.
23. A system for performing the method of claim 10, comprising a device for measuring eye movement, a memory for storing the training profiles and testing profile, and a computer for determining the one or more oculomotor features and identifying the target profile.
24. A method of attributing an identity to a subject, comprising
compiling a training profile of each of a test subject and one or more training subjects, wherein each training profile comprises one or more oculomotor features exhibited by the each of the test subject and the one or more training subjects during one or more tasks,
associating each of the training profiles of the test subject and one or more training subjects with an identity,
detecting a testing profile of the test subject, wherein the testing profile comprises one or more of the one or more oculomotor features exhibited during one or more of the one or more tasks,
identifying a target profile, wherein the target profile is the training profile of the test subject and one or more training subjects closest to the testing profile, wherein identifying comprises performing a k-nearest neighbor analysis and k = 1, and
attributing the identity associated with the target profile with the test subject, wherein the one or more tasks are selected from the group consisting of fixation, saccade speed, saccade accuracy, visually-guided saccades, anti-saccades, memory-guided saccades, free viewing, pursuit, and any combination of two or more of the foregoing, and
detecting comprises observing features wherein features are selected from the group consisting of one or any combination of two or more fixation features if one of the one or more tasks comprises fixation, one or any combination of two or more saccade speed features if one of the one or more tasks comprises saccade speed, one or any combination of two or more saccade accuracy features if one of the one or more tasks comprises saccade accuracy, one or any combination of two or more visually-guided saccades features if one of the one or more tasks comprises visually-guided saccades, one or any combination of two or more anti-saccades features if one of the one or more tasks comprises anti-saccades, one or any combination of two or more memory-guided saccades features if one of the one or more tasks comprises memoryguided saccades, one or any combination of two or more free viewing features if one of the one or more tasks comprises free viewing, one or any combination of two or more pursuit features if one of the one or more tasks comprises pursuit, and any combination of two or more of the foregoing.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises fixation.
26. The method of claim 24, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises saccade speed.
27. The method of claim 24, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises saccade accuracy.
28. The method of claim 24, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises visuallyguided saccades.
29. The method of claim 24, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises antisaccades.
30. The method of claim 24, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises memory guided saccades.
31. The method of claim 24, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises free viewing.
32. The method of claim 24, wherein one or more of the tasks comprises pursuit.
33. The method of claim 24 wherein the one or more tasks comprise fixation, saccade speed, saccade accuracy, visually-guided saccades, anti-saccades, memory-guided saccades, free viewing, and pursuit.
34. The method of any one of claims 1 through 33, wherein each of the one or more tasks has a training duration and a testing duration and the training duration and the testing duration of one or more of the tasks is between two seconds and three minutes.
35. The method of claim 25, wherein the task has a testing duration and the testing duration is between one minute and three minutes.
36. The method of claim 25, wherein the task has a testing duration and the testing duration is between thirty seconds and one minute.
37. The method of claim 25, wherein the task has a testing duration and the testing duration is between ten seconds and thirty seconds.
38. The method of claim 25, wherein the task has a testing duration and the testing duration is between two seconds and ten seconds.
39. The method of any one of claims 26 through 32, wherein each of the one or more tasks has a training duration and a testing duration and the training duration and the testing duration of one or more of the tasks is between two seconds and three minutes.
40. The method any one of claims 26 through 32, wherein the task has a testing duration and the testing duration is between one minute and three minutes.
41. The method any one of claims 26 through 32, wherein the task has a testing duration and the testing duration is between thirty seconds and one minute.
42. A system for performing the method of any one of the claims 24 through 41, comprising a device for measuring eye movement, a memory for storing the training profiles and testing profile, and a computer for determining the one or more oculomotor features and identifying the target profile.
43. A system for performing the method of claim 34, comprising a device for measuring eye movement, a memory for storing the training profiles and testing profile, and a computer for determining the one or more oculomotor features and identifying the target profile.
</claims>
</document>
