<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/64
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FAUNAPHOTONICS AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENTAL A/S
</assignee>

<inventors>
RODRIGO, PETER JOHN
PRANGSMA, Jord Cornelis
NIELSEN, Josefine Holm
SØRENSEN, Mikkel Brydegaard
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70975857
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTION OF NON-PHYTOPLANKTON-EATING ZOOPLANKTON WITHIN A VOLUME OF WATER
</title>

<abstract>
A method and an apparatus for detecting ectoparasites such as salmon lice within a volume of water. Zooplankton are detected within a volume of water and fluorescence from chlorophyll is used to distinguish non-phytoplankton-eating zooplankton (40), such as salmon lice, from phytoplankton-eating zooplankton (42).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting freely swimming non-phytoplankton-eating
zooplankton, the method comprising :
illuminating a volume of water with a first illumination radiation comprising a first illumination wavelength, the first illumination radiation being capable of inducing autofluorescence of chlorophyll; detecting radiation received from the volume of water; determining whether zooplankton is present within the volume of water based on the detected radiation; measuring an amount of autofluorescence from chlorophyll from a zooplankton present within the volume of water; identifying whether the zooplankton determined to be present within the volume of water is a non-phytoplankton-eating zooplankton based on the measured amount of autofluorescence from chlorophyll.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein detecting radiation received from the volume of water comprises capturing an image of the volume of water and determining whether zooplankton is present within the volume of water comprises using a particle finding algorithm to locate zooplankton within the captured image.
3. A method according to any of the previous claims, wherein measuring an amount of autofluorescence from chlorophyll from a zooplankton present within the volume of water comprises measuring an intensity of fluorescent light from chlorophyll, the flourescent light being received from the volume of water.
4. A method according to any of the previous claims, wherein detecting radiation received from the volume of water comprises recording blue autofluorescence from zooplankton within the volume of water and determining whether
zooplankton is present within the volume of water is based on the recorded blue fluorescence. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein the blue autofluorescence is measured in a wavelength range having end points within the range 400 - 650 nm, preferably within the range 450 - 600 nm, most preferably within the range 500 - 550 nm.
6. A method according to any of the previous claims, wherein the measured autofluorescence from chlorophyll is recorded in a wavelength range having end points within the range 650 - 750 nm, preferably within the range 650 - 725 nm, most preferably within the range 650 - 700 nm.
7. A method according to any of claims 4 - 6, wherein identifying whether the zooplankton is a non-phytoplankton-eating zooplankton comprises identifying non-phytoplankton-eating zooplankton from the amount of autofluorescence from chlorophyll and from the recorded blue autofluorescence.
8. A method according to any of claims 4 - 7, wherein identifying whether the zooplankton is a non-phytoplankton-eating zooplankton comprises:
calculating a ratio of the measured amount of autofluorescence from chlorophyll from the zooplankton and a measured amount of the recorded blue autofluorescence from the zooplankton, and/or determining a first proportionality parameter for the measured amount of autofluorescence from chlorophyll from the zooplankton and determining a second proportionality parameter for a measured amount of the blue autofluorescence from the zooplankton, and wherein identifying whether the zooplankton is a non-phytoplankton-eating zooplankton is further based on the calculated ratio and/or is further based on the determined proportionality parameters. 9. A method according to any of claims 1 - 3, wherein the method further comprises:
illuminating the volume of water with a second illumination radiation comprising a second illumination wavelength;
wherein detecting radiation received from the volume of water comprises recording an amount of reflected radiation from zooplankton within the volume of water, the reflected radiation comprising reflected radiation of the second illumination wavelength, and determining whether zooplankton is present within the volume of water is based on the recorded reflected radiation.
10. A method according to claim 9, wherein the first and second illumination radiation illuminate the volume of water at separate times.
11. A method according to any of claims 9 or 10, wherein the second illumination wavelength has a value within the wavelength range 650 - 750 nm, preferably within the range 650 - 725 nm, most preferably within the range 650 - 700 nm.
12. A method according to any of claims 9 - 11, wherein identifying whether the zooplankton is a non-phytoplankton-eating zooplankton comprises identifying non-phytoplankton-eating zooplankton from the amount of autofluorescence from chlorophyll and from the recorded reflected radiation.
13. A method according to any of claims 9 - 12, wherein identifying whether the zooplankton is a non-phytoplankton-eating zooplankton comprises calculating a ratio of the measured amount of autofluorescence from chlorophyll from the zooplankton and the recorded reflected radiation from the zooplankton.
14. A method according to any of the previous claims, the method further comprising reporting to a system or to a user whether one or more nonphytoplankton-eating zooplankton has been identified within the volume of water water and/or an amount of non-phytoplankton-eating zooplankton having been identified within the volume of water.
15. A method according to any of the previous claims, comprising processing, by a processing unit, a captured image and/or other measurement results so as to detect one or more indicators of the presence of one or more individual organisms in the volume of water.
16. A method according to any of the previous claims, further comprising:
- determining where zooplankton are present within the volume of water, and - measuring an amount of autoflourescence from chlorophyll and detecting flourescent or reflected radiation from individual zooplankton.
17. An apparatus for detecting freely swimming non-phytoplankton-eating zooplankton, the apparatus comprising: a light source unit adapted to emit a first illumination radiation comprising a first illumination wavelength, the first illumination radiation being capable of inducing autofluorescence of chlorophyll; - one or more optical elements configured to illuminate a volume of water with the first illumination radiation; a detector unit arranged to detect radiation from the volume of water; - a processing unit configured to determine whether zooplankton is present within the volume of water based on the detected radiation; wherein the detector unit is further configured to measure an amount of autofluorescence from chlorophyll from a zooplankton present within the volume of water, and the processing unit is further configured to determine whether a zooplankton within the volume of water is a non-phytoplankton-eating
zooplankton based on the measured amount of autofluorescence from chlorophyll.
</claims>
</document>
