<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F8/38,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
LONSDORF, BRIAN J.
ROHDE, SÖNKE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68582485
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REFINEMENT OF MACHINE LEARNING ENGINES FOR AUTOMATICALLY GENERATING COMPONENT-BASED USER INTERFACES
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed relating to refining, based on user feedback, one or more machine learning engines for automatically generating component-based user interfaces. In various embodiments, a computer system stores template information that defines a plurality of component types and one or more display parameters identified for one or more user interfaces. The computer system may receive a request to generate a user interface, where the request specifies a data set to be displayed. Further, the computer system may automatically generate a user interface, where the generating is performed by one or more machine learning engines that use the template information and the data set as inputs. The computer system may then provide the user interface to one or more users, receive user feedback associated with the user interface, and train at least one of the one or more machine learning engines based on the user feedback.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising:
storing, by a computing system, template information that defines a plurality of component types and one or more display parameters identified for one or more user interfaces, wherein a component type specifies a set of one or more user interface element types included in a given component, and wherein a display parameter specifies how one or more components are to be displayed;
receiving, by the computing system, a request to automatically generate a user interface, wherein the request specifies a data set to be displayed using the user interface;
automatically generating, by the computer system, at least one user interface in response to the request, wherein the generating is performed by one or more machine learning engines that use the template information and the data set as inputs;
providing, by the computer system, the at least one user interface to one or more users; receiving, by the computer system, user feedback associated with the at least one user interface; and
training at least one of the one or more machine learning engines based on the user feedback.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one user interface includes:
a selection of one or more component types through which to display the data set; and an arrangement of one or more components, corresponding to the one or more component types, displaying the data set in one or more user interface elements.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the automatically generating the at least one user interface comprises:
automatically selecting a plurality of suggested component types for a subset of the data set;
wherein the user feedback indicates one of the plurality of suggested component types.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising:
automatically generating, for the plurality of suggested component types, a corresponding plurality of representative components; causing display of a particular user interface that includes the corresponding plurality of representative components, wherein each of the corresponding plurality of representative components depicts the subset of the data set; and
receiving, by the computer system, input indicating a selected component type of the plurality of suggested component types, wherein the at least one user interface, provided to the one or more users, includes at least a portion of the data set depicted using the selected component type.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the user feedback includes data corresponding to user interaction with the at least one user interface.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the data corresponding to the user interaction includes at least one of click data for one or more user interface element included in the at least one user interface, or hover data for one or more user interface element included in the at least one user interface.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the user feedback includes data corresponding to user interaction, with the at least one user interface, of a particular user, wherein the method further comprises:
based on the data corresponding to the user interaction of the particular user, generating a profile for the particular user, wherein the profile is used as an input for at least one of the one or more machine learning engines.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the user feedback includes data corresponding to user interaction, with the at least one user interface, of a particular set of one or more users, wherein the method further comprises:
selectively training at least one of the one or more machine learning engines based on the data corresponding to the user interaction of the particular set of one or more users.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the providing the at least one user interface to the one or more users comprises:
providing, to the one or more users, the at least one user interface in a first interactive format; and providing, to the one or more users, the at least one user interface in a second, different interactive format;
wherein the user feedback includes data specifying an interactive format used by the one or more users to interact with the at least one user interface.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
modifying, by the computer system, the template information based on the user feedback.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon that are capable of execution by a computing device to perform operations comprising:
storing template information that defines a plurality of component types and one or more display parameters identified for one or more user interfaces, wherein a component type specifies a set of one or more user interface element types included in a given component, and wherein a display parameter specifies how one or more components are to be displayed;
receiving a request to automatically generate a user interface, wherein the request specifies a data set to be displayed using the user interface;
automatically generating at least one user interface in response to the request, wherein the generating is performed by one or more machine learning engines that use the template information and the data set as inputs;
providing the at least one user interface to one or more users;
receiving user feedback associated with the at least one user interface; and
training at least one of the one or more machine learning engines based on the user feedback.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the automatically generating the at least one user interface comprises:
automatically selecting a plurality of suggested component types for a subset of the data set;
wherein the user feedback indicates one of the plurality of suggested component types.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise:
automatically generating, for the plurality of suggested component types, a corresponding plurality of representative components; causing display of a particular user interface that includes the corresponding plurality of representative components, wherein each of the corresponding plurality of representative components depicts the subset of the data set; and
receiving input indicating a selected component type of the plurality of suggested component types, wherein the at least one user interface, provided to the one or more users, includes at least a portion of the data set depicted using the selected component type.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the user feedback includes data corresponding to user interaction with the at least one user interface.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the data
corresponding to the user interaction includes at least one of click data for one or more user interface element included in the at least one user interface, or hover data for one or more user interface element included in the at least one user interface.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the user feedback includes data corresponding to user interaction, with the at least one user interface, of a particular user, wherein the operations further comprise:
selectively training at least one of the one or more machine learning engines based on the data corresponding to the user interaction of the particular user.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the user feedback includes data corresponding to user interaction, with the at least one user interface, of a particular set of one or more users, wherein the operations further comprise:
based on the data corresponding to the user interaction of the particular set of one or more users, generating a profile for the particular group of users, wherein the profile is used as an input for at least one of the one or more machine learning engines.
18. A system, comprising:
at least one processor; and
a non-transitory, computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon that are executable by the at least one processor to cause the system to perform operations, the operations comprising: storing template information that defines a plurality of component types and one or more display parameters identified for one or more user interfaces, wherein a component type specifies a set of one or more user interface element types included in a given component, and wherein a display parameter specifies how one or more components are to be displayed;
receiving a request to automatically generate a user interface, wherein the request specifies a data set to be displayed using the user interface;
automatically generating at least one user interface in response to the request, wherein the generating is performed by one or more machine learning engines that use the template information and the data set as inputs;
providing the at least one user interface to one or more users;
receiving user feedback associated with the at least one user interface; and training at least one of the one or more machine learning engines based on the user feedback. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the automatically generating the at least one user interface comprises:
automatically selecting a plurality of suggested component types for a subset of the data set;
wherein the user feedback indicates one of the plurality of suggested component types.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the user feedback includes data corresponding to user interaction with the at least one user interface.
</claims>
</document>
