<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B1/04,G06T7/00,G06T7/33,H04N5/225
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERB SURGICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
JOHNSON, ERIC
SCOTT, DAVID, D.
VENKATARAMAN, JAGADISH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514921
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR AUTOMATICALLY REPOSITIONING A VIEWABLE AREA WITHIN AN ENDOSCOPE VIDEO VIEW
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments described herein provide various examples of displaying video images of a surgical video captured at a first resolution on a screen of a surgical system having a second resolution lower than the first resolution. In one aspect, a process begins by receiving the surgical video and selecting a first portion of the video images having the same or substantially the same resolution as the second resolution. The process subsequently displays the first portion of the video images on the screen. While displaying the first portion of the video images, the process monitors a second portion of the video images not being displayed on the screen for a set of predetermined events, wherein the second portion is not visible to the user. When a predetermined event in the set of predetermined events is detected in the second portion, the process generates an alert to notify the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method for displaying video images of a surgical video captured at a first resolution on a screen of a surgical system having a second resolution lower than the first resolution, the method comprising:
selecting a first portion of the video images having the same or substantially the same resolution as the second resolution;
displaying the first portion of the video images on the screen;
while displaying the first portion of the video images, monitoring a second portion of the video images not being displayed on the screen for a set of predetermined events, wherein the second portion of the video images is not visible to the user; and
when a predetermined event in the set of predetermined events is detected in the second portion of the video images, generating an alert to notify the user that an off-screen event has been detected.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1,
wherein the first resolution is greater than the second resolution in both the horizontal and the vertical dimensions; and
wherein the first portion of the video images is substantially the center portion of the video images.
3. The computerimplemented method of claim 1, wherein selecting the first portion of the video images includes selecting a portion of the video images centered on a tip of a surgical tool captured by the video images.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein while displaying the first portion of the video images, the first portion of the video images occupies the full display area of the screen without leaving any blank space on the screen.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein monitoring the second portion of the video images for the set of predetermined events includes using one or more machine-learning models to process the second portion of the video images in order to detect each of the set of predetermined events.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the alert to notify the user that an off-screen event has been detected includes displaying a warning message on the screen to prompt the user to take appropriate action.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the alert on the screen includes a direction indicator to show the user a direction in which the off-screen event was detected.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein when the off-screen event is detected, the method further comprises immediately changing the view on the screen from the first portion of the video images to a third portion of the video images, which contains the detected off-screen event.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the third portion of the video images overlaps with the first portion and the second portion of the video images and has the same size as the first portion of the video images.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein when the off-screen event is detected, the method further comprises immediately changing the view on the screen from the first portion of the video images to the full video images displayed at a reduced resolution to make the detected off-screen event visible to the user.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein after generating the alert to notify the user that an off-screen event has been detected, the method further comprises: providing the user with a selection option to either change the view on the screen from the first portion of the video images to another portion of the video images containing the detected off-screen event or change the view on the screen from the first portion of the video images to the full video images displayed at a reduced resolution;
receiving a user selection in response to the selection option; and
changing the view on the screen based on the received user selection to make the detected off-screen event visible to the user.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein after generating the alert to notify the user that an off-screen event has been detected, the method further comprises allowing the user to manually change the view on the screen from the first portion of the video images to another portion of the video images containing the detected off-screen event in response to the alert.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of predetermined events includes surgical smoke and bleeding.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of predetermined events includes a set of surgical tool-related events, which further includes: (1) whether the jaws of a surgical tool detected off-screen are closed or open; and (2) whether a tip of a surgical tool detected off-screen is too close to a critical anatomy.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, wherein if the detected predetermined event is one of the set of surgical tool-related events, the method further comprises immediately deactivating functionalities or locking motion of a surgical tool associated with the detected surgical tool-related event.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the surgical video is one of: an endoscopic surgery video;
a laparoscopic surgery video;
a robotic surgery video; and
an open surgery video.
17. A system for displaying a surgical video, comprising:
one or more processors; and
a screen having a native resolution,
wherein the one or more processors are configured to:
receive a surgical video comprising a sequence of video images captured at a first resolution for display on the screen, wherein the first resolution is greater than the native resolution of the screen;
for each video image in the sequence of video images, select a first portion of the video image having the same or substantially the same resolution as the native resolution to display on the screen;
while displaying the first portion of the video images, monitor a second portion of the video images not being displayed on the screen for a set of predetermined events, wherein the second portion of the video images is not visible to the user; and
if a predetermined event in the set of predetermined events is detected in the second portion of the video images, generate an alert to notify the user that an off screen event has been detected.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein when the off-screen event is detected, the one or more processors are further configured to immediately change the view on the screen from the first portion of the video images to a third portion of the video images, which contains the detected off-screen event.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein when the off-screen event is detected, the one or more processors are further configured to immediately change the view on the screen from the first portion of the video images to the full video images displayed at a reduced resolution to make the detected off-screen event visible to the user.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein after generating the alert to notify the user that an off-screen event has been detected, the one or more processors are further configured to: provide the user with a selection option to either change the view on the screen from the first portion of the video images to another portion of the video images containing the detected off-screen event or change the view on the screen from the first portion of the video images to the full video images displayed at a reduced resolution;
receive a user selection in response to the selection option; and
change the view on the screen based on the received user selection to make the detected off-screen event visible to the user.
</claims>
</document>
