<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H30/20,G16H30/40,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LEICA BIOSYSTEMS IMAGING
</assignee>

<inventors>
SALIGRAMA, KIRAN
GEORGESCU, WALTER
LAWLER, DARRAGH
LACEY, Claude
LUNA, Carlos
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71787115
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE PROCESSING SYSTEM AND AUTOMATED PRE-DIAGNOSTIC WORKFLOW FOR DIGITAL PATHOLOGY
</title>

<abstract>
A digital pathology system comprising an AI processing module configured to invoke an instance of an AI processing application for processing image data from a histological image and an application module configured to invoke an instance of an application operable to perform an image processing task on a histological image associated with a patient record, wherein the image processing task includes an AI element. The application creates processing jobs to handle the AI elements of its task which are handled by the AI processing module. The AI processing module may be a CNN that processes a histological image to identify tumors by classifying image pixels into one of multiple tissue classes of tumorous or non-tumorous tissue. A test ordering module automatically determines based on identified tissue classes whether additional tests should be performed on the tissue sample. For each additional test, an order is automatically created and submitted. Advantageously, upon first review by a pathologist, the patient record includes the histological image and results from the automatically ordered additional tests.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A digital pathology system comprising:
an artificial intelligence processing module configured to invoke an instance of an artificial intelligence processing application for processing image data from a histological image or part thereof; and
an application module operatively connectable to the artificial intelligence processing module and configured to invoke an instance of an application operable to perform an image processing task on a histological image associated with a patient record, wherein the image processing task includes an artificial intelligence element, the application instances being configured to create processing jobs to handle the artificial intelligence elements, to send these jobs to the artificial intelligence processing instances for processing, and to receive back processing results from the artificial intelligence processing module.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a data repository configured to store records of patient data including histological images or sets thereof, and operatively connectable to the application module to pass patient data to the application module to support the processing jobs.
3. The system of claim 1 or 2, wherein the artificial intelligence processing module is configured with a data retention policy which promptly and permanently deletes the image data contained in the processing jobs it receives as soon as practically possible after processing the image data is complete.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the artificial intelligence processing instances are configured to process the image data in units of patches, wherein the image data is supplied to the artificial intelligence processing module from the application module in units of tiles which map to the patches, and the data retention policy promptly and permanently deletes the image data contained in the processing jobs patchwise or tilewise as soon as practically possible after processing each patch or tile.
5. The system of any preceding claim, wherein the patient data includes additionally metadata linking patient identity to the image data such that when the image data is detached from the metadata the image data is anonymous, wherein the metadata linking the image data to a patient identity is retained in the data repository and not sent to the application module in fulfillment of the processing jobs, so the image data received by the application module is anonymized.
6. The system of any preceding claim, wherein the artificial intelligence processing module includes a statistics collection unit operable to monitor and record processing of the artificial intelligence elements.
7. The system of any preceding claim, further comprising an artificial intelligence processing configuration module having a user interface and an interface with the artificial intelligence processing module to enable a user to configure artificial intelligence processing resource in the artificial intelligence processing module.
8. The system of any preceding claim, wherein the application module further includes an image processing task allocator operable to decide on allocation of artificial intelligence elements of image processing tasks between performance internally in the application module and performance by the artificial intelligence processing module with a processing job.
9. The system of any preceding claim, wherein the application instances further comprise containers which encapsulate the application instances and provide an interface between an application instance and external inputs and outputs, the interface being configured to handle a plurality of data input and output formats.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the containers are further configured to initialize application instances contained therein.
11. The system of any preceding claim, wherein the artificial intelligence processing application is operable to apply a convolutional neural network.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the convolutional neural network is configured to identify tumors in image data from the histological images.
13. A digital pathology image processing method comprising:
receiving a request to perform image processing on a histological image associated with a patient record, and in response thereto;
invoking an instance of an application operable to perform an image processing task on the histological image, wherein the image processing task includes an element of artificial intelligence; creating a processing job for an artificial intelligence processing application in order to process the artificial intelligence element;
establishing a communication connection to an artificial intelligence processing module;
sending the processing job to the artificial intelligence processing module;
receiving results of the processing job from the artificial intelligence processing module; and
completing the image processing task.
14. A computer program product bearing machine readable instructions for performing the method of claim 13.
15. A computer-automated method of processing data from a tissue sample, the method comprising:
loading from a patient record stored in a data repository a histological image of a section of a tissue sample into a convolutional neural network, the histological image including a two-dimensional array of pixels;
applying the convolutional neural network to generate an output image with a twodimensional array of pixels with a mapping to that of the histological image, the output image being generated by assigning one of a plurality of tissue classes to each pixel, wherein the plurality of tissue classes includes at least one class representing non-tumorous tissue and at least one class representing tumorous tissue;
determining, for each tissue class of clinical relevance, with reference to a stored protocol for that tissue class, whether any further tests should be performed on the tissue sample; and
creating and submitting an order for each further test that is to be performed.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising, when at least one pixel of a clinically relevant tissue class is present in the output image:
applying a filter to screen pixels of that tissue class to determine whether they are present with a significant abundance, wherein, whether an order for any further tests is created for that tissue class is conditional on determining that there is a significant abundance of pixels of that tissue class.
17. The method of claim 15 or 16, wherein the histological image is an H&E (hematoxylin and eosin) image.
18. The method of claim 15, 16, or 17, wherein the test results include a further histological image from a further section of the tissue sample that has been stained with a marker.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the marker is selected from the group: ER (estrogen receptor), PR (progesterone receptor) and HER2 (human epidermal growth factor receptor 2).
20. The method of claim 18 or 19, further comprising displaying the histological image and the further histological image.
21. The method of any preceding claim, wherein creating and submitting each order is further conditional on checking whether an authorization is needed for that order and, if not already provided for, issuing a request to a user to seek such an authorization.
22. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the stored protocols associated with respective tissue classes are organized in a database and wherein determining whether any further tests are to be performed is carried out by submitting a database query containing at least one the tissue classes identified by the CNN.
23. The method of any preceding claim, wherein determining whether any further tests are to be performed is further conditional on a reference to the patient record to check that results of such a further test are not already available.
24. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the tissue classes include at least two classes for tumorous tissue.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the tissue classes for tumorous tissue include at least a first class for invasive tumors and a second class for in situ tumors.
26. The method of any preceding claim, wherein there is one tissue class for non-tumorous tissue.
27. The method of any preceding claim, wherein there is a tissue class representing areas where no tissue is identified.
28. The method of any preceding claim, further comprising saving test results from each further test to the patient record.
29. The method of any preceding claim, further comprising, prior to said loading from the patient record, acquiring the histological image with a slide scanner and saving the histological image to the patient record.
30. The method of any preceding claim, further comprising: loading from the patient record the histological image and the test results into a visualization application; and
displaying with the visualization application on a display device the histological image and the test results for diagnostic analysis.
31. The method of any preceding claim, wherein applying the convolutional neural network comprises:
extracting image patches from the histological image, the image patches being area portions of the histological image or set thereof having a size defined by numbers of pixels in width and height;
providing the convolutional neural network with a set of weights and a plurality of channels, each channel corresponding to one of the plurality of tissue classes to be identified; inputting each image patch as an input image patch into the convolutional neural network;
performing multi-stage convolution to generate convolution layers of ever decreasing dimensions up to and including a final convolution layer of minimum dimensions, followed by multi-stage transpose convolution to reverse the convolutions by generating deconvolution layers of ever increasing dimensions until a layer is recovered matched in size to the input image patch, each pixel in the recovered layer containing a probability of belonging to each of the tissue classes; and
assigning the tissue class to each pixel of the recovered layer based on said probabilities to arrive at an output image patch.
32. The method of claim 31, further comprising defining the areas in the histological image that correspond to tumors according to the probability map.
33. The method of claim 31, further comprising storing the probability map into the record in the data repository, so that the probability map is linked to the histological image.
34. The method of claim 31, further comprising:
providing the convolutional neural network with at least one skip connection, each of which takes intermediate results from at least one of the convolution layers of larger dimensions than the final convolution layer and subjects those results to as many transpose convolutions as needed, which may be none, one or more than one, to obtain at least one further recovered layer matched in size to the input image patch; and
prior to said step of assigning a tissue class to each pixel, further processing the recovered layer to combine it with the at least one further recovered layers in order to recompute the probabilities to take account of the at least one skip connection.
35. The method of claim 31, wherein a softmax operation is used to generate the probabilities.
36. The method of claim 31 performed for prediction, wherein the convolutional neural network has had its weight values assigned during prior training.
37. The method of claim 31 performed for training, wherein the record includes ground truth data which assigns each pixel in the histological image to one of the tissue classes, the method of claim 31 being performed iteratively, where each iteration involves adjusting its weight values for the convolutional neural network based on comparing the ground truth data with the output image patches.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein adjusting the weights during training is performed by gradient descent.
39. A computer program product for processing data from a tissue sample in a laboratory information system, the computer program product bearing machine readable instructions for performing the method of any preceding claim.
40. A computer network system for processing data from a tissue sample, the system comprising:
a data repository operable to store patient records containing histological images of sections of tissue samples, the histological image including a two-dimensional array of pixels;
a processing module loaded with a computer program configured to receive histological images from the patient records and apply a convolutional neural network thereto so as to generate an output image with a two-dimensional array of pixels with a mapping to that of the histological image, the output image being generated by assigning one of a plurality of tissue classes to each pixel, wherein the plurality of tissue classes includes at least one class representing non-tumorous tissue and at least one class representing tumorous tissue;
a test ordering module loaded with a computer program configured to:
determine for at least one of the tissue classes with reference to a protocol for that tissue class stored in the computer network system whether any further tests should be performed on the tissue sample;
create and submit an order within the computer network system for each further test that is to be performed; and
save test results from each further test to the patient record.
41. The system of claim 40, further comprising a visualization application comprising a computer program operable to load from a selected patient record its histological image and its test results, and to display on a display device the histological image and the test results for diagnostic analysis.
42. The system of claim 41, further comprising a display operable in conjunction with the visualization application.
43. The system of claim 42, further comprising an image acquisition apparatus operable to acquire histological images and to store them to patient records in the data repository.
</claims>
</document>
