<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/00,H04N7/14,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GRAVETIME INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHECHTER, Joseph
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73552434
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GRAVESIDE MEMORIAL TELEPRESENCE METHOD, APPARATUS AND SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus and associated methods relate to a graveside communications device exchanging multimedia between a grave and a user's communications device remote from the grave, activating an energy emitter configured by the graveside device to physically interact with the grave responsive to the remote user's activity, and sending to the user's communication device a live indication of the interaction. In an illustrative example, the device at the grave may include a video camera. The user's device may be configured to exchange multimedia with the graveside device. In some examples, the energy emitter may be a laser pointer directed at the grave. The remote user's activity may be, for example, the user1 s voice captured by the user's smartphone modulating the laser pointer light. Various examples may advantageously provide graveside telepresence, permitting a user physical interaction with a grave, and providing live indication of the interaction to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method to provide telepresence at a graveside memorial, comprising: configuring a graveside communications device to exchange multimedia between a grave and a user's communications device remote from the grave; configuring the graveside communications device to activate an energy emitter adapted to physically interact with the grave responsive to the remote user's activity; and, sending to the user's communication device from the graveside communications device a live indication of the energy emitter physical interaction with the grave.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the energy emitter further comprises a laser pointer adapted to emit light energy.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the laser pointer is disposed to direct light emitted by the laser pointer at a surface of the memorial when the laser pointer is activated.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the method further comprises: receiving, by the graveside device, an electronic message comprising a command to the graveside device to redirect the laser pointer so that the light emitted by the laser pointer moves from a first location on a surface of the memorial to a second location on a surface of the memorial.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the method further comprises: sending, by the graveside device, an electronic message comprising an indication the light emitted by the laser pointer moved from the first location on a surface of the memorial to the second location on a surface of the memorial, determined based on the graveside device detecting the laser pointer light reflected from the first location on a surface of the memorial and the laser pointer light reflected from the second location on a surface of the memorial.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the laser pointer light is modulated as a function of the user activity.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the method further comprises: receiving, by the graveside device, an electronic message comprising data representative of sound captured by the user's device; and, modulating, by the graveside device, the laser pointer light as a function of the sound captured by the user's device.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the energy emitter further comprises a low frequency audio transducer adapted to emit sound energy constrained to a frequency range below the lower limit of the human-audible frequency range, and wherein the sound energy emitted is not audible by humans when the audio transducer is activated.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the low frequency audio transducer is disposed to direct sound emitted from the low frequency audio transducer at the memorial when the low frequency audio transducer is activated.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the method further comprises: receiving, by the graveside device, an electronic message comprising data representative of sound captured by the user's device; and, activating, by the graveside device, the low frequency audio transducer as a function of the sound captured by the user's device.
11. An apparatus configured to provide telepresence at a graveside memorial, comprising: a processor; a video camera, operably and communicatively coupled with the processor; a wireless communication interface, operably and communicatively coupled with the processor; and, a memory that is not a transitory propagating signal, the memory operably connected to the processor and encoding computer readable instructions, including processor executable program instructions, the computer readable instructions accessible to the processor, wherein the processor executable instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: exchange multimedia between a grave and a user's communications device remote from the grave; activate an energy emitter adapted to physically interact with the grave responsive to the remote user's activity; and, send to the user's communication device a live indication of the energy emitter physical interaction with the grave.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the video camera further comprises a microphone.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein multimedia further comprises at least one of audio, an image, or video.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein exchange multimedia further comprises send an electronic message comprising multimedia captured at the grave.
15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein exchange multimedia further comprises receive an electronic message comprising multimedia captured by the user's communications device remote from the grave.
16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the energy emitter further comprises a laser pointer adapted to emit light energy.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the laser pointer is disposed to direct light emitted by the laser pointer at a surface of the memorial when the laser pointer is activated.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the operations performed by the processor further comprise: receive an electronic message comprising a command to redirect the laser pointer so that the light emitted by the laser pointer moves from a first location on a surface of the memorial to a second location on a surface of the memorial.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the operations performed by the processor further comprise: send an electronic message comprising an indication the light emitted by the laser pointer moved from the first location on a surface of the memorial to the second location on a surface of the memorial, determined based on detecting the laser pointer light reflected from the first location on a surface of the memorial and the laser pointer light reflected from the second location on a surface of the memorial.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the laser pointer light is modulated as a function of the user activity.
21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the operations performed by the processor further comprise: receive an electronic message comprising data representative of sound captured by the user's device; and, modulate the laser pointer light as a function of the sound captured by the user's device.
22. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the energy emitter further comprises a low frequency audio transducer adapted to emit sound energy constrained to a frequency range below the lower limit of the human-audible frequency range, and wherein the sound energy emitted is not audible by humans when the audio transducer is activated.
23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the low frequency audio transducer is disposed to direct sound emitted from the low frequency audio transducer at the memorial when the low frequency audio transducer is activated.
24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the operations performed by the processor further comprise: receive an electronic message comprising data representative of sound captured by the user's device; and, activate the low frequency audio transducer as a function of the sound captured by the user's device.
5. An apparatus configured to provide telepresence at a graveside memorial, comprising: a processor; a video camera, comprising an optical image sensor and a microphone, wherein the video camera is operably and communicatively coupled with the processor; a wireless communication interface, operably and communicatively coupled with the processor; an energy emitter, comprising: a laser pointer adapted to emit light energy, wherein the laser pointer is operably and communicatively coupled with the processor, and wherein the laser pointer orientation in three dimensional space is governed by a pan and tilt control operably and communicatively coupled with the laser pointer and the processor; and, a low frequency audio transducer adapted to emit sound energy constrained to a frequency range below the lower limit of the human-audible frequency range, wherein the low frequency audio transducer is disposed to direct sound emitted from the low frequency audio transducer at the memorial when the low frequency audio transducer is activated, and wherein the low frequency audio transducer is operably and communicatively coupled with the processor; and, a memory that is not a transitory propagating signal, the memory operably connected to the processor and encoding computer readable instructions, including processor executable program instructions, the computer readable instructions accessible to the processor, wherein the processor executable instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: exchange multimedia between a grave and a user's communications device remote from the grave, wherein the multimedia comprises at least one of audio, an image, or video, and wherein exchange multimedia comprises: send an electronic message comprising multimedia captured at the grave; and, receive an electronic message comprising multimedia captured by the user's communications device remote from the grave; and, activate the energy emitter to physically interact with the grave responsive to the remote user's activity, comprising: receive an electronic message comprising a command to reorient the laser pointer so that the light emitted by the laser pointer moves from incidence at a first location on a surface of the memorial to incidence at a second location on a surface of the memorial; and, send to the user's communication device a live indication of the energy emitter physical interaction with the grave, comprising: send an electronic message comprising an indication the light emitted by the laser pointer moved from incidence at a first location on a surface of the memorial to incidence at a second location on a surface of the memorial, determined based on detecting the laser pointer light reflected from the first location on a surface of the memorial and detecting the laser pointer light reflected from the second location on a surface of the memorial.
26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the laser pointer light is modulated as a function of the user activity.
27. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the operations performed by the processor further comprise: receive an electronic message comprising data representative of sound captured by the user's device; and, modulate the laser pointer light as a function of the sound captured by the user's device.
28. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the operations performed by the processor further comprise: receive an electronic message comprising data representative of sound captured by the user's device; and, activate the low frequency audio transducer as a function of the sound captured by the user's device.
29. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein detecting the laser pointer light further comprises object tracking as a function of video captured by the graveside memorial telepresence apparatus.
30. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein detecting the laser pointer light further comprises optical flow as a function of video captured by the graveside memorial telepresence apparatus.
</claims>
</document>
