<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/04,G06N7/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAGOTA, ARUN KUMAR
SELVANANDAN, Piranavan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72519383
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING FROM DATA STEWARD FEEDBACK FOR MERGING RECORDS
</title>

<abstract>
System determines first and second scores based on applying function to features of first and second values in fields in first and second records, respectively. System determines first priority based on first score and second priority based on second score for displaying first and second values in fields in first profile. System revises, based on feedback associated with first value and second value, parameter associated with function and determines third score based on applying function, associated with revised parameter, to feature of third value in field in third record. System determines fourth score based on applying function, associated with revised parameter, to feature of fourth value in field in fourth record and determines third priority, based on third score, for displaying third value in field in second profile and fourth priority, based on fourth score, for displaying fourth value in field in second profile.
</abstract>

<claims>
In the Claims: 1. A system comprising:
one or more processors; and
a non-transitory computer readable medium storing a plurality of instructions, which when executed, cause the one or more processors to:
determine a first score based on applying a function to a feature of a first value in a field in a first record;
determine a second score based on applying the function to the feature of a second value in the field in a second record;
determine a first priority, based on the first score, for displaying the first value in the field in a first profile, and a second priority, based on the second score, for displaying the second value in the field in the first profile;
revise, based on feedback associated with the first value and the second value, at least one parameter associated with the function;
determine a third score based on applying the function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the feature of a third value in the field in a third record; determine a fourth score based on applying the function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the feature of a fourth value in the field in a fourth record; and
determine a third priority, based on the third score, for displaying the third value in the field in a second profile, and a fourth priority, based on the fourth score, for displaying the fourth value in the field in the second profile. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the first score is further based on applying another function to another feature of the first value in the field in the first record, determining the second score is further based on applying the other function to the other feature of the second value in the field in the second record, determining the third score is further based on applying the other function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the other feature of the third value in the field in the third record, and determining the fourth score is further based on applying the other function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the other feature of the fourth value in the field in a fourth record. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the first score is further based on applying a second function to a second feature of a fifth value in a second field in the first record, determining the second score is further based on applying the second function to the second feature of a sixth value in the second field in the second record, the first priority is also for displaying the fifth value in the second field in the first profile, the second priority is also for displaying the sixth value in the second field in the first profile, the at least one parameter is also associated with the second function, and the feedback is also associated with the fifth value and the sixth value. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein determining the third score is further based on applying the second function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the second feature of a seventh value in the second field in the third record, determining the fourth score is further based on applying the second function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the second feature of an eighth value in the second field in the fourth record, the third priority is also for displaying the seventh value in the second field in the second profile, and the fourth priority is also for displaying the eighth value in the second field in the second profile. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the feedback is received from a data steward and comprises the first value, the second value, and a preference for one of the first value and the second value. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the function is based on a frequency of a specific value occurring in a set of values. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the function is based on a general preference associated with a specific feature.
8. A computer program product comprising computer-readable program code to be executed by one or more processors when retrieved from a non-transitory computerreadable medium, the program code including instructions to:
determine a first score based on applying a function to a feature of a first value in a field in a first record;
determine a second score based on applying the function to the feature of a second value in the field in a second record;
determine a first priority, based on the first score, for displaying the first value in the field in a first profile, and a second priority, based on the second score, for displaying the second value in the field in the first profile;
revise, based on feedback associated with the first value and the second value, at least one parameter associated with the function;
determine a third score based on applying the function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the feature of a third value in the field in a third record; determine a fourth score based on applying the function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the feature of a fourth value in the field in a fourth record; and
determine a third priority, based on the third score, for displaying the third value in the field in a second profile, and a fourth priority, based on the fourth score, for displaying the fourth value in the field in the second profile. 9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein determining the first score is further based on applying another function to another feature of the first value in the field in the first record, determining the second score is further based on applying the other function to the other feature of the second value in the field in the second record, determining the third score is further based on applying the other function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the other feature of the third value in the field in the third record, and determining the fourth score is further based on applying the other function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the other feature of the fourth value in the field in a fourth record.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein determining the first score is further based on applying a second function to a second feature of a fifth value in a second field in the first record, determining the second score is further based on applying the second function to the second feature of a sixth value in the second field in the second record, the first priority is also for displaying the fifth value in the second field in the first profile, the second priority is also for displaying the sixth value in the second field in the first profile, the at least one parameter is also associated with the second function, and the feedback is also associated with the fifth value and the sixth value. 11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein determining the third score is further based on applying the second function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the second feature of a seventh value in the second field in the third record, determining the fourth score is further based on applying the second function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the second feature of an eighth value in the second field in the fourth record, the third priority is also for displaying the seventh value in the second field in the second profile, and the fourth priority is also for displaying the eighth value in the second field in the second profile. 12. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the feedback is received from a data steward and comprises the first value, the second value, and a preference for one of the first value and the second value. 13. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the function is based on a frequency of a specific value occurring in a set of values. 14. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the function is based on a general preference associated with a specific feature.
15. A method comprising:
determining a first score based on applying a function to a feature of a first value in a field in a first record;
determining a second score based on applying the function to the feature of a second value in the field in a second record;
determining a first priority, based on the first score, for displaying the first value in the field in a first profile, and a second priority, based on the second score, for displaying the second value in the field in the first profile;
revising, based on feedback associated with the first value and the second value, at least one parameter associated with the function;
determining a third score based on applying the function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the feature of a third value in the field in a third record; determining a fourth score based on applying the function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the feature of a fourth value in the field in a fourth record; and
determining a third priority, based on the third score, for displaying the third value in the field in a second profile, and a fourth priority, based on the fourth score, for displaying the fourth value in the field in the second profile. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein determining the first score is further based on applying another function to another feature of the first value in the field in the first record, determining the second score is further based on applying the other function to the other feature of the second value in the field in the second record, determining the third score is further based on applying the other function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the other feature of the third value in the field in the third record, and determining the fourth score is further based on applying the other function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the other feature of the fourth value in the field in a fourth record. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein determining the first score is further based on applying a second function to a second feature of a fifth value in a second field in the first record, determining the second score is further based on applying the second function to the second feature of a sixth value in the second field in the second record, the first priority is also for displaying the fifth value in the second field in the first profile, the second priority is also for displaying the sixth value in the second field in the first profile, the at least one parameter is also associated with the second function, and the feedback is also associated with the fifth value and the sixth value. 18. The method of claim 17,, wherein determining the third score is further based on applying the second function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the second feature of a seventh value in the second field in the third record, determining the fourth score is further based on applying the second function, associated with the revised at least one parameter, to the second feature of an eighth value in the second field in the fourth record, the third priority is also for displaying the seventh value in the second field in the second profile, and the fourth priority is also for displaying the eighth value in the second field in the second profile. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein the feedback is received from a data steward and comprises the first value, the second value, and a preference for one of the first value and the second value. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein the function is based on one of a frequency of a specific value occurring in a set of values, and a general preference associated with a specific feature.
</claims>
</document>
