<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/49,G16B20/00,G16B40/00,H01J49/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BIODESIX
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAGUIRE, LAURA
NET, LEILA
RODER, JOANNA
ROEDER, HEINRICH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72043822
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTIVE TEST FOR IDENTIFICATION OF EARLY STAGE NSCLC PATIENTS AT HIGH RISK OF RECURRENCE AFTER SURGERY
</title>

<abstract>
A method for predicting whether an early stage (IA, IB) non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patient is at a high risk of recurrence of the cancer following surgery involves subjecting a blood-based sample from the patient (obtained prior to, at, or after the surgery) to mass spectrometry and classification with a computer implementing a classifier. If the patient's blood sample is classified as 'high risk', highest risk'or the equivalent, the patient can be guided to more aggressive treatment post-surgery. The classifier, or combination of classifiers, can be arranged in a hierarchical manner to make intermediate classifications, such as intermediate/high or intermediate/low, as well as low risk' or 'lowest risk' classifications. Such additional classifications may guide clinical decisions as well.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for detecting a class label in an early stage non-small-ceil lung cancer patient, comprising the steps of:
(a) conducting mass spectrometry on a blood-based sample obtained from the patient and obtaining integrated intensity values in the mass spectral data of a multitude of pre-determined mass-spectral features, and
(b) operating on the mass spectral data with a programmed computer implementing a classifier, wherein the programmed computer performs a hierarchical classification procedure on the mass spectrometry data, including a first classifier (Classifier A) producing a class label in the form of high risk or low risk or the equivalent, and if the Classifier A produces the high risk label the sample is classified by a second classifier (Classifier B) generating a classification label of highest risk or high/intermediate risk or the equivalent, and wherein In the operating step the classifier compares the integrated intensity values obtained in step (a) with feature values of a reference set of class-labeled mass spectral data obtained from blood-based samples obtained from a multitude of other early stage nonsmall-ceil lung cancer patients with a classification algorithm and detects a class label for the sample in accordance with the hierarchical classification schema.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the programmed computer stores a reference set of mass spectrometry data used for classification by classifiers A and B obtained from blood-based samples obtained from a multitude of early stage non-small-cel! cancer patients, and wherein the mass spectrometry data includes integrated intensity values for features listed In Appendix A.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein the programmed computer implements a hierarchical classifier schema including a third classifier (Classifier C) wherein if the classifier A produces a"low risk" classification label the sample is classified by the third classifier C and wherein classifier C produces a class label of lowest risk or low/intermediate risk or the equivalent.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein classifiers A, B and C are combined in a fourway hierarchical schema as shown in Figure 3.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein classifiers A, B and C are combined in a three-way hierarchical schema as shown in Figure 14
6. The method of claim 4 or claim 5, wherein each of the classifiers A, B and C comprise a combination of a multitude of master classifiers each developed from a different separation of a development sample set used to generate classifiers A, B and C into training and test sets.
7. The method of any of claims 1-6, wherein the blood-based sample is obtained before surgery to treat the cancer.
8. The method of any of claims 1-6, wherein the blood-based sample is obtained after surgery to treat the cancer and wherein the reference set of class-labeled mass spectral data obtained from blood-based samples obtained from a multitude of other early stage non-smali-ce!l lung cancer patients after surgery to treat the cancer.
9. The method of claim any of claims 1-6, further comprising performing steps (a) and (b) on blood-based samples of the patient obtained before and after surgery to treat the cancer.
10. A method for performing a risk assessment of recurrence of cancer in an early stage non-smail-eel! lung cancer patient; comprising the steps of: performing mass spectrometry on a blood-based sample obtained from the patient and obtaining mass spectrometry data, and in a programmed computer, performing a hierarchical classification procedure on the mass spectrometry data wherein the computing machine implements a hierarchical classifier schema including a first classifier (Classifier A) producing a class label in the form of high risk or low risk or the equivalent, and if the Classifier A produces the high risk label the sample is classified by a second classifier (Classifier B) generating a classification label of highest risk or high/intermediate risk or the equivalent, wherein if Classifier B produces the label of highest risk or the equivalent the patient is predicted to have a high risk of recurrence of the cancer following surgery.
1 1. The method of claim 10, wherein the programmed computer stores a reference set of mass spectrometry data used for ciassification by classifiers A and B obtained from biood-based samples obtained from a multitude of early stage non-smail-cell cancer patients, and wherein the mass spectrometry data includes feature values for features listed in Appendix A.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the computing machine implements a hierarchical classifier schema including a third classifier (Classifier C) wherein if the classifier A produces a"low risk" classification label the sample is classified by the third classifier C and wherein classifier C produces a class label of lowest risk or iow/intermediate risk or the equivalent.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein classifiers A, B and C are combined in a four-way hierarchical schema as shown in Figure 3.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein classifiers A, B and C are combined in a three-way hierarchical schema as shown in Figure 14.
15. The method of claim 13 or claim 14, wherein each of the classifiers A, B and C comprise a combination of a multitude of master classifiers each developed from a different separation of a development sample set used to generate classifiers A, B and C into training and test sets.
16. A programmed computer making a prediction of the risk of recurrence of cancer in an early stage non-smail-cell lung cancer patient from a blood-based sample obtained from the patient, comprising a processing unit and a memory storing code and classifier parameters such that the computer is configured as a hierarchical classifier as per Figure 3 or Figure 14 combining classifiers A, B and C, the memory further storing a reference set of mass spectral data from blood-based samples obtained from a multitude of early stage non-small ceil lung cancer patients for use in classification of the blood-based sample including feature values of the features listed in Appendix A.
17. The programmed computer of claim 16, wherein:
Classifier A is defined by parameters such that it generates a class label of high risk or the equivalent and low risk or the equivalent;
Classifier B is used to classify a sample previously classified as high risk or the equivalent by Classifier A, and is defined by parameters such that it generates a class label of highest risk or the equivalent and an intermediate classification or the equivalent; and wherein
Classifier C is used to classify a sample previously classified as low risk or the equivalent by Classifier A, and is defined by parameters such that it generates a class label of lowest risk or the equivalent and an intermediate classification or the equivalent.
18. A laboratory testing apparatus comprising, in combination: a mass spectrometer conducting mass spectrometry on a blood-based sample from an early stage NSCLC patient; a programmed computer as defined in claim 16 or claim 17 operating on mass spectrometry data obtained from the blood-based sample by the mass spectrometer and generating a class label for the sample indicating the risk of the patient of recurrence of cancer following surgery.
19. The laboratory test apparatus of claim 18, wherein each of the classifiers A, B and C comprise parameters defining a combination of a multitude of master classifiers each developed from a different separation of a development sample set used to generate classifiers A, B and C into training and test sets.
20. The laboratory test apparatus of claim 19, wherein in the process of generation of classifier A, a"label-flip" approach is used, in which training class labels and classifier were simultaneously iteratively refined.
21. The method of any of claims 10-15, wherein in the process of generation of classifier A, a"label-flip" approach is used, in which training class labels and classifier were simultaneously iteratively refined.
22. A method of performing a risk assessment of recurrence of cancer in an early stage non-sma!i-cel! lung cancer patient having surgery to treat the cancer; comprising the steps of:
(1) obtaining a pre-surgery blood-based sample from the patient, performing mass spectrometry on the sample and obtaining the integrated intensity values of the features listed in Appendix A, and then classifying the mass spectrum of the sample with a computerbased classifier developed from a set of blood-based samples obtained from other early stage NSCLC patients, the classifier producing a label of high or highest risk of recurrence or the equivalent and low or lowest risk of recurrence or the equivalent;
(2) if the sample is not classified as high or highest risk of recurrence in accordance with the classification produced in step (1), obtaining a further blood-based sample from the patient after the surgery and conducting mass spectrometry on the blood-based sample including obtaining integrated intensity values of the features listed in Appendix A; and
(3) classifying the mass spectrum of the sample obtained in (2) in accordance with a computer-based classifier developed from a set of blood-based samples obtained from other early stage NSCLC patients after surgery, wherein the classifier of this paragraph (3) generates a class label of either G1 or the equivalent or G2 or the equivalent, with G2 class label associated with a prediction that the patient will have a lower risk of recurrence as compared to risk of recurrence associated with the class label G1.
23. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of repeating steps (2) and (3) over time after the surgery.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the classifier of step (1) is either a binary classifier, a ternary classifier producing one of three class labels for a sample , or a four-way classifier producing one of four class labels, wherein one of the class labels produced by the classifier of step (1) is associated with a highest or high risk of recurrence.
25. A laboratory testing apparatus comprising, in combination: a mass spectrometer conducting mass spectrometry on a blood-based sample from an early stage NSCLC patient; a programmed computer operating on mass spectrometry data obtained from the blood-based sample by the mass spectrometer and configured to implement two classifiers:
(1) a first ciassifier operating on a mass spectrum of a blood-based sample obtained from a patient prior to surgery to treat the cancer and generating a class label for the sample indicating the risk of the patient of recurrence of cancer following surgery; and
(2) a second ciassifier developed from a set of blood-based samples obtained from early stage NSCLC patients after surgery and operating on a mass spectrum of a bloodbased sample obtained from the patient after the surgery and generating a class label for the sample indicating the risk of the patient of recurrence of cancer following the surgery.
28. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the mass spectrometer obtains integrated intensity values of the features listed in Appendix A.
27. A method for performing a risk assessment of recurrence of cancer in an early stage non-smail-ceil lung cancer patient; comprising the steps of: performing mass spectrometry on a blood-based sample obtained from the patient prior to surgery to treat the cancer and obtaining mass spectrometry data, and in a computing machine, performing a binary classification procedure on the mass spectrometry data wherein the computing machine implements a first ciassifier (Classifier A) producing a class label in the form of high risk or low risk or the equivalent, wherein if the class label of is high risk or the equivalent the patient is predicted to have a high risk of recurrence of the cancer following surgery.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the method further comprises the step of guiding the patient to more aggressive treatment post-surgery.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the more aggressive treatment comprises adjuvant chemotherapy, radiation therapy, immunotherapy or more close foi!ow-up.
30. The method of any of ciaims 27-29, wherein Classifier A comprises parameters defining a combination of a multitude of master classifiers each developed from a different separation of a development sample set used to generate classifier into a training set and a test set.
</claims>
</document>
