<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K19/07,G06K19/077
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAGGIONI, Lorenzo
HOGHOLT, Egil
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65952077
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ACTIVATABLE TRANSPONDER DEVICE COMPRISING A PHYSICALLY CONFIGURABLE ANTENNA
</title>

<abstract>
A method to manufacture a transponder device comprising a physical interface component. Producing transponder device comprising an electronic circuit and an antenna in contact with the electronic circuit. The electronic circuit is configurable to store data. Including a physical interface component in contact with the antenna, the antenna being configured to receive radio signals of a specified frequency when the physical interface component is activated. A transponder device is activatable via a physical interface component in contact with an antenna and comprises: an electronic circuit storing data; an antenna in contact with the electronic circuit, the antenna being configured to receive radio signals of a specified frequency; and a physical interface component in contact with the antenna that, when activated, prevents the antenna from receiving the radio signals of the specified frequency.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A transponder device comprising:
an electronic circuit storing data;
an antenna in contact with the electronic circuit, the antenna being configured to receive radio signals of a specified frequency; and
an interface component in contact with the antenna to activate the antenna to receive the radio signals of the specified frequency.
2. The transponder device of claim 1, wherein interaction with the interface component activates the antenna to receive the radio signals of the specified frequency.
3. The transponder device of claim 2, wherein the interface component comprises a conductive substance in contact with one or more regions of the antenna, the conductive substance causing a short circuit along each of the one or more regions of the antenna to prevent the antenna from receiving the radio signals of the specified frequency, and
wherein the interaction with the interface component comprises removing at least a portion of the conductive substance in contact with the one or more regions of the antenna.
4. The transponder device of claim 3, wherein the conductive substance comprises a metal substance.
5. The transponder device of claim 3, wherein the conductive substance comprises a conductive film.
6. The transponder device of claim 3, wherein removing the conductive substance comprises scratching the conductive substance.
7. The transponder device of claim 3, wherein the antenna comprises two or more concentric shapes, and wherein the antenna is configured to receive the radio signals of the specified frequency when the conductive substance is removed from at least one of the two or more concentric shapes.
8. The transponder device of claim 7, wherein the two or more concentric shapes comprise two or more concentric circles, two or more concentric ovals, or two or more concentric polyhedrons.
9. The transponder device of claim 3, the electronic circuit receiving the radio signals of the specified frequency emitted by a reader computing device, establishing a communication channel with the reader computing device via the antenna, and transmitting the stored data to the reader computing device via the communication channel.
10. The transponder device of claim 9, wherein the communication channel comprises a near-field communication ("NFC") channel or a radio frequency identification ("RFID") communication channel.
11. The transponder device of claim 9, wherein placing the transponder device within a specified proximity to a reader computing device activates the electronic circuit via reception of the radio signals of the specified frequency.
12. The transponder device of claim 1, wherein the interface component comprises one or more of a spring, a sliding mechanism, a winding mechanism, or a folding mechanism.
13. The transponder device of claim 2, wherein interacting with the interface component comprising applying force to a region of a surface of the transponder device.
14. The transponder device of claim 2, wherein interacting with the interface component causes the antenna to enter a specified geometric configuration to receive the radio signals of the specified frequency.
15. The transponder device of claim 2, wherein receiving the radio signals of the specified frequency by an activated antenna activates the electronic circuit and enables transmission of the stored data to the reader computing device via the communication channel.
16. The transponder device of claim 1, wherein a size of the antenna is proportional to the specified frequency of the radio signals.
17. The transponder device of claim 1, wherein the electronic circuit comprises a microchip.
18. A method to manufacture transponder devices, comprising:
providing a transponder device comprising an electronic circuit and an antenna in contact with the electronic circuit, wherein the electronic circuit is configurable to store data, the antenna being configured to receive radio signals of a specified frequency; and
providing an interface component in contact with the antenna to activate the antenna to receive the radio signals of the specified frequency.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein interaction with the interface component activates the antenna to receive the radio signals of the specified frequency.
20. The method of claim 19,
wherein one or more regions of the antenna are exposed to an environment external to the transponder device,
wherein providing the interface component in contact with the antenna comprises applying a conductive substance to the one or more regions of the antenna exposed to the environment external to the transponder device to cause a short circuit across the one or more regions of the antenna, and
wherein activating the antenna via the interaction with the interface component comprises removing at least a portion of the conductive substance from the one or more regions of the antenna to remove the short circuit across the one or more regions of the antenna.
21. The method of claim 20, the electronic circuit receiving via the activated antenna the radio signals of the specified frequency emitted by a reader computing device, establishing a communication channel with the reader computing device via the activated antenna, and transmitting the stored data to the reader computing device via the communication channel.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the communication channel comprises a near field communication ("NFC") channel or radio frequency identification ("RFID") communication channel.
23. The method of claim 20, wherein the conductive substance comprises a metal substance.
24. The method of claim 20, wherein the conductive substance comprises a conductive film.
25. The method of claim 20, wherein removing the conductive substance comprises scratching the conductive substance.
26. The method of claim 20, wherein the antenna comprises two or more concentric shapes, wherein the antenna is able to receive the radio signals of the specified frequency when the conductive substance is removed from at least one of the two or more concentric shapes.
27. The method of claim 26 wherein the two or more concentric shapes comprise two or more concentric circles, two or more concentric ovals, or two or more concentric polyhedrons.
28. The method of claim 19, wherein the interface component in contact with the antenna secures the antenna in a first geometric configuration, preventing the antenna from receiving the radio signals of the specified frequency while in the first geometric configuration, and
wherein interacting with the interface component to activate the antenna comprises changing a geometric configuration of the antenna from the first geometric configuration to a second geometric configuration using the interface component, the second geometric configuration enabling the antenna to receive the radio signals of the specified frequency.
29. The method of claim 18, wherein the interface component comprises one or more of a spring, a sliding mechanism, a winding mechanism, or a folding mechanism.
30. The transponder device of claim 28, wherein the interface component comprises a region of a surface of the transponder device and wherein applying force to the physical interface component moves the antenna from the first geometric configuration to the second geometric configuration.
31. The method of claim 18, wherein a size of the antenna is proportional to the specified frequency of the radio signals.
32. The method of claim 18, wherein the electronic circuit comprises a microchip.
</claims>
</document>
