<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEEMILLER, PETER J.
BERKELEY LIGHTS
BRONEVETSKY, YELENA
GOODSELL, AMANDA L.
MARKS, NATALIE C.
MCEWEN, JASON M.
MOCCIARO, ANNAMARIA
PAI, VINCENT HAW TIEN
SMITH, DUANE
STADLER, GUIDO K.
TENNEY, JOHN, A.
VETTERLI, THOMAS M.
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEEMILLER, PETER J.
BRONEVETSKY, YELENA
GOODSELL, AMANDA L.
MARKS, NATALIE C.
MCEWEN, JASON M.
MOCCIARO, ANNAMARIA
PAI, VINCENT HAW TIEN
SMITH, DUANE
STADLER, GUIDO K.
TENNEY, JOHN, A.
VETTERLI, THOMAS M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70462874
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS FOR ASSAYING BIOLOGICAL CELLS IN A MICROFLUIDIC DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Methods are provided for the assay of secreted biomolecules using automated detection and characterization of micro-objects in a microfluidic device. The biomolecules can be secreted by cells, particularly immunological cells, such as T cells. The biomolecules being assayed can include cytokines, growth factors, and the like. Methods are also provided for assaying the cytotoxicity of a cell with respect to another, target cell. Also provided are kits and non-transitory computer-readable media in which programs are stored for causing a system comprising a computer to perform automated methods for detecting secreted biomolecules and/or cytotoxicity in a microfluidic device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting a first biological molecule of interest secreted by a biological cell in a chamber of a microfluidic device, the method comprising:
disposing the biological cell within the chamber of the microfluidic device;
disposing a first micro-object in or proximal to the chamber of the microfluidic device, wherein the first micro-object comprises a first binding agent that binds to the first molecule of interest;
incubating the biological cell together with the first micro-object under conditions sufficient to allow the biological cell to secrete the first molecule of interest into the chamber and for the secreted first molecule of interest to diffuse over and bind to the first micro-object; and
detecting binding of the first molecule of interest to the first micro-object, wherein detecting binding comprises:
receiving a first image and one or more second images of a region of interest in the microfluidic device;
pre-processing the first image and the one or more second images to reduce anomalies in the image data;
transforming each of the one or more second images to optically align the second image(s) with the first image;
processing pixel data in the first image using a machine learning algorithm to detect micro objects present in the region of interest, wherein detecting each micro-object comprises identifying a boundary of the micro-object; and
detecting a signal located within each boundary of each detected micro-object in each one of the one or more second images.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting binding is performed according to the method of any one of embodiments 201 to 262.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the biological cell is an immunological cell.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the immunological cell is a T cell.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the immunological cell is a memory B cell or a plasma cell.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the chamber of the microfluidic device is a sequestration pen that comprises an isolation region and a connection region, wherein the connection region fluidically connects the isolation region to a flow region of the microfluidic device, and wherein the isolation region is an unswept region of the microfluidic device.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the isolation region of the sequestration pen has a single opening to the connection region.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the connection region of the sequestration pen has a proximal opening to a flow region of the microfluidic device and a distal opening to the isolation region, wherein the proximal opening of the connection region has a width W¥n from about 20 microns to about 100 microns, and wherein a length L¥n of the connection region from the proximal opening to the distal opening is at least 1.0 times the width W¥n of the proximal opening.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the length Leon of the connection region from the proximal opening to the distal opening is in in the range of about 20 microns to about 500 microns; wherein the height HCh of the flow region at the proximal opening of the connection region is in the range of about 20 microns and about 100 microns; and/or wherein the width Wch of the flow region at the proximal opening of the connection region is in the range of about 50 microns to about 500 microns.
10. The method of any one of claim 1 or 3 to 9, wherein disposing the biological cell within the chamber of the microfluidic device comprises selecting the biological cell from a population of biological cells and moving the selected biological cell into the chamber.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the biological cell is selected, at least in part, based on one or more physical characteristics.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the biological cell is selected, at least in part, based on expression of one or more surface markers.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the one or more surface markers are CD3, CD4, CD8, CD137, or any combination thereof.
14. The method of any one of claims 1 or 3 to 9, wherein disposing the first micro-object comprises disposing the first micro-object in the chamber of the microfluidic device.
15. The method of any one of claims 1 or 3 to 9, wherein the first binding agent of the first micro-object comprises a protein.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the protein of the first binding agent is an antibody or a receptor for the molecule of interest.
17. The method of any one of claims 1 or 3 to 9, wherein the first molecule of interest is a protein.
18. The method of any one of claims 1 or 3 to 9, wherein the first molecule of interest is a cytokine or a growth factor.
19. The method of any one of claims 1 or 3 to 9, wherein incubating the biological cell comprises incubating the biological cell together with the first micro-object for a period of time of at least 10 minutes.
20. The method of any one of claims 1 or 3 to 9, wherein detecting binding of the first molecule of interest to the first micro-object comprises introducing a first reagent into the microfluidic device, wherein the first reagent binds to the first molecule of interest at a site such that binding of the first reagent to the first molecule of interest does not interfere with binding of the first molecule of interest to the first micro-object.
21. The method of any one of claims 1 or 3 to 9, wherein detecting binding of the first molecule of interest to the first micro-object comprises introducing a first reagent into the microfluidic device, wherein the first reagent binds to the first binding agent of the first micro-object when the first molecule of interest is also bound to the first binding agent, but not when the first binding agent is not bound to the first molecule of interest.
22. The method of claim 20, wherein the first reagent comprises a label.
23. The method of any one of claims 1 or 3 to 9, wherein the method further comprises: disposing a second micro-object in or proximal to the chamber of the microfluidic device, wherein the second micro-object comprises a second binding agent that binds to a second molecule of interest produced by the biological cell; incubating the biological cell together with the second micro-object under conditions sufficient to allow the biological cell to secrete the second molecule of interest into the chamber and for the secreted second molecule of interest to diffuse over and bind to the second micro-object; and detecting binding of the second molecule of interest to the second micro-object.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein: the second micro-object is detectably distinguishable from the first micro-obj ect; the second molecule of interest is different from the first molecule of interest; the second binding agent binds to the second molecule of interest and substantially not to the first molecule of interest and the first binding agent does not substantially bind to the second molecule of interest; and detection of binding of the second molecule of interest is distinguishable from detection of binding of the first molecule of interest
25. The method of claim 23, wherein detecting binding of the second molecule of interest to the second micro-object comprises introducing a second reagent into the microfluidic device, wherein the second reagent binds to the second molecule of interest at a site such that binding of the second reagent to the second molecule of interest does not interfere with binding of the second molecule of interest to the second micro-object.
26. The method of claim 23, wherein detecting binding of the second molecule of interest to the second micro-object comprises introducing a second reagent into the microfluidic device, wherein the second reagent labels the second molecule bound to the second micro-object.
27. The method of claim 25, wherein the second reagent binds to the second binding agent of the second micro-object when the second molecule of interest is also bound to the second binding agent, but not when the second binding agent is not bound to the second molecule of interest.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the second reagent comprises a label, and wherein the label of the second reagent is spectrally distinct from a label of the first reagent.
29. The method of claim 23, wherein the second molecule of interest is a protein.
30. The method of any one of claims 1 or 3 to 9, wherein the microfluidic device comprises a plurality of chambers.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein each of at least a subset of the plurality of chambers of the microfluidic device is a sequestration pen that comprises an isolation region and a connection region, wherein the connection region fluidically connects the isolation region to a flow region of the microfluidic device, and wherein the isolation region is an unswept region of the microfluidic device.
32. A non-transitory computer-readable medium in which a program is stored for causing a system comprising a computer to perform a method for detecting a first biological molecule of interest secreted by a biological cell in a chamber of a microfluidic device, the method comprising:
disposing the biological cell within the chamber of the microfluidic device;
disposing a first micro-object in or proximal to the chamber of the microfluidic device, wherein the first micro-object comprises a first binding agent that binds to the first molecule of interest;
incubating the biological cell together with the first micro-object under conditions sufficient to allow the biological cell to secrete the first molecule of interest into the chamber and for the secreted first molecule of interest to diffuse over and bind to the first micro-object; and
detecting binding of the first molecule of interest to the first micro-object.
33. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 32, wherein the method is the method of any one of claims 1 to 32.
34. A method of assaying for antigen-specific cytotoxicity of a T lymphocyte (T cell) in a microfluidic device, the method comprising:
disposing the T cell within the microfluidic device; disposing a target cell in proximity to the T cell; and
determining a viability of the target cell after a period of exposure in proximity to the T cell.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein the target cell expresses an antigen for which the T cell is specific.
36. The method of claim 34 or 35, wherein the assay is a co-assay and further comprises: disposing a first capture object in proximity to the T lymphocyte, wherein the capture micro-object is configured to capture a first secreted biomolecule released from the T cell; and detecting the first secreted biomolecule captured to the first capture object.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the first secreted biomolecule is a protein.
38. The method of claim 36, wherein the first secreted protein released from the antigen-specific T cell is a cytokine.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein the cytokine is Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF alpha), Transforming Growth Factor beta (TGF beta), Interferon gamma (IFN gamma), Interleukin-l beta (IL1 beta), Interleukin-2 (IL2), Interleukin-4 (IL4), Interleukin-5 (IL5), Interleukin -6 (IL6), Interleukin -10 (IL10), Interleukin- 12 (IL12), Interleukin- 13 (IL13), Interleukin- 17A (IL17A), or Interleukin-22 (IL22).
40. The method of claim 34 or 35, wherein the target cell is a cancer cell.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein the target cell expresses an antigen associated with melanoma, breast cancer, or lung cancer.
42. The method of claim 34 or 35, wherein the T cell is a mammalian T cell.
43. The method of claim 34 or 35, wherein the T cell is antigen-specific for a tumor associated antigen.
44. The method of claim 34 or 35, wherein the T cell expresses a chimeric antigen receptor.
45. The method of claim 34 or 35, wherein the T cell does not express a chimeric antigen receptor.
46. The method of claim 34 or 35, wherein the microfluidic device comprises a flow region for containing a flow of a first fluidic medium and a chamber opening to the flow region.
47. The method of claim 34 or 35, wherein the chamber comprises a sequestration pen.
48. The method of claim 47, wherein the sequestration pen comprises an isolation region for containing a second fluidic medium, the isolation region having a single opening, wherein the isolation region of the sequestration pen is an unswept region of the microfluidic device; and a connection region fluidically connecting the isolation region to the flow region.
49. The method of claim 34 or 35, wherein the T cell and the target cell are each disposed in the chamber.
50. The method of claim 36, wherein the T cell, the first capture object and the target cell are each disposed in an isolation region of a sequestration pen.
51. The method of claim 34 or 35, wherein determining the viability of the target cell comprises contacting the target cell with a detectable marker configured to label a non-viable cell.
52. The method of claim 51, wherein the detectable marker configured to label a non-viable cell is configured to label apoptotic cells.
53. The method of claim 51, wherein the detectable marker configured to label a non-viable cell is configured to label calcium flux or mitochondrial membrane potential.
54. The method of claim 34 or 35, wherein the determining the viability of the target cell after the period of exposure to the T cell is repeated over a plurality of periods of exposure to the T cell.
55. The method of claim 34 or 35, further comprising labelling the T cell for the presence of one or more cell surface markers associated with proliferation, activation, metabolic activity, memory, exhaustion, and/or lineage.
56. A non-transitory computer-readable medium in which a program is stored for causing a system comprising a computer to perform a method of assaying for antigen-specific cytotoxicity of a T lymphocyte (T cell) in a microfluidic device, the method comprising: disposing the T cell within the microfluidic device; disposing a target cell in proximity to the T cell; and determining a viability of the target cell after a period of exposure in proximity to the T cell.
57. The method of the non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 56, wherein the target cell expresses an antigen for which the T cell is specific.
58. The method of the non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 56, wherein the assay is a co assay and further comprises: disposing a first capture object in proximity to the T lymphocyte, wherein the capture micro-object is configured to capture a first secreted biomolecule released from the T cell; and detecting the first secreted biomolecule captured to the first capture object.
59. The method of the non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 58, wherein the first secreted biomolecule is a protein.
60. The method of the non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 58, wherein the first secreted protein released from the antigen-specific T cell is a cytokine.
61. The method of the non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 56 or 58, wherein the method is the method of any one of embodiments 405 to 443.
62. A kit for assaying antigen-specific cytotoxicity by a T lymphocyte (T cell) in a microfluidic device, the kit comprising: a microfluidic device comprising a flow region for containing a flow of a first fluidic medium and a chamber opening to the flow region; and a cytotoxicity detection reagent configured to detect viability of a target cell.
63. The kit of claim 62, wherein the cytotoxicity detection reagent comprises a reagent configured to label an apoptotic cell.
64. The kit of claim 62, wherein the cytotoxicity detection reagent comprises a reagent configured to detect calcium flux or mitochondrial membrane potential.
65. The kit of any one of claims 62 to 64, further comprising a first capture object configured to capture a first secreted biomolecule of a T cell.
</claims>
</document>
