<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/02,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZOOX INC
</assignee>

<inventors>
MA DEREK XIANG
ZHENG ZEJIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73456797
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CLOSED LANE DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described for detecting whether a lane of a roadway is open or closed. Detecting a lane as being closed may include detecting an object in or near the lane, which may comprise determining a size, location, and/or classification associated with the object, and dilating the size associated with the object. The lane may be indicated as being closed if a distance between a dilated object detection and another object detection, dilated object detection, or lane extent is less than a threshold distance. The techniques may additionally or alternatively comprise determining an alternative lane shape based at least in part on one or more object detections and/or determining that one or more lanes are closed and/or uploading a lane closure and/or alternative lane shape to a central database for retrieval by/dissemination to other computing devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A system comprising:
one or more sensors;
one or more processors; and
memory storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to perform operations comprising:
receiving an object detection, the object detection indicating a location of an object in an environment and a plurality of dimensions of the object, the plurality of dimensions comprising a first dimension along a direction of a lane associated with the object and a second dimension perpendicular to the first direction;
modifying at least one of the first dimension or second dimension based at least in part on at least one of width of the lane or the direction of the lane to obtain a dilated object detection;
determining a distance between the dilated object detection and at least one of another object detection, another dilated object detection, or a width of the lane;
determining that the distance is less than a distance threshold; and
determining, based at least in part on determining that the distance is less than the distance threshold, a closed status indicating that the lane is closed.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the modifying the object detection comprises increasing the size parallel in the first direction more than in the second direction.
3. The system of claim 1 or 2, wherein modifying the at least one of the first direction or the second direction and the determining the closed status are further based at least in part on determining that a classification associated with the object detection comprises a safety class, wherein the safety class comprises at least one of:
a safety object;
safety personnel;
a safety vehicle; or
a safety sign or safety signal.
4. The system of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the object detection is a first object detection, and the operations iurther comprise:
receiving one or more second object detections after the first object detection;
determining at least one of the one or more second object detections is associated with a classification that comprises a safety class; and
maintaining the closed status based at least in part on the determining at least one of the one or more second object detections is associated with the classification that identifies the safety object.
5. The system of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the operations further comprise:
receiving sensor data after receiving the object detection;
determining a second object detection associated with at least one of the lane or an adjacent lane; determining that a direction of travel associated with at least one of the lane or an adjacent lane is blocked; and
determining, in a plane associated with the roadway, a polygon that includes one or more object detections that identity a safety class.
6. The system of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the operations further comprise:
determining an open status associated with a second lane, based at least in part on a second object detection or second sensor data associated with the second lane, wherein the second lane is adjacent to the lane.
7. The system of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the operations further comprise:
receiving, from one or more sensors, sensor data;
determining, based at least in part on the sensor data, that the autonomous vehicle is proximate to a junction; and
maintaining the closed status based at least in part on determining that the autonomous vehicle is proximate to the junction.
8. The system of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the operations further comprise:
associating the closed status with at least a portion of a roadway; and
transmitting, to a remote computing device, the closed status and an identification of the portion.
9. The system of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the operations further comprise:
determining, based at least in part on sensor data from a sensor on an autonomous vehicle, a drivable surface on which the autonomous vehicle is travelling comprising at least a lane;
receiving, from a remote computing system and based at least in part on the drivable surface, a second status indicating the lane as being closed; and
determining a route for controlling an autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the second status and the drivable surface.
10. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
receiving an object detection, the object detection comprising a location of an object in an environment and a size of the object;
modifying the object detection based at least in part on a direction of a lane associated with the object detection to obtain a dilated object detection;
determining a distance between the dilated object detection and at least one of another object detection associated with the lane, another dilated object detection associated with the lane, or an extent of the lane; determining that the distance is less than a distance threshold; and
determining, based at least in part on determining that the distance is less than the distance threshold, a closed status indicating that the lane is closed.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein modifying the object detection and determining the closed status are further based at least in part on determining that a classification associated with the object detection comprises a safety class, wherein the safety class comprises at least one of:
a safety object;
safety personnel;
a safety vehicle; or
a safety sign or safety signal.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10 or 11, wherein the object detection is a first object detection, and the operations further comprise:
receiving one or more second object detections after the first object detection;
determining at least one of the one or more second object detections is associated with a classification that comprises a safety object; and
maintaining the closed status based at least in part on the determining at least one of the one or more second object detections is associated with the classification that identifies the safety object.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of any one of claims 10-12, wherein the operations further comprise:
receiving sensor data after receiving the object detection;
determining a second object detection associated with at least one of the lane or an adjacent lane; determining that a direction of travel associated with at least one of the lane or an adjacent lane is blocked; and
determining, in a plane associated with the roadway, a polygon that includes one or more object detections that identify a safety class.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of any one of claims 10-13, wherein the operations further comprise:
receiving, from one or more sensors of an autonomous vehicle, sensor data;
determining, based at least in part on the sensor data, that the autonomous vehicle is proximate to a junction; and
maintaining the closed status based at least in part on determining that the autonomous vehicle is proximate to the junction.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of any one of claims 10-14, wherein the operations further comprise:
associating the closed status with at least a portion of a roadway; and
transmitting, to a remote computing device, the closed status and an identification of the portion.
</claims>
</document>
