<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B23K11/11,B23K11/25,B23K31/12,G01N21/88,G01N21/956,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ARCONIC TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SPINELLA, DONALD J.
GLOBIG, MICHAEL A.
FULTON, DAVID
IASELLA, GINO N.
COLEMAN, DAVID E.
FRIANT, JARED
HARI, Akshay
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72667537
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NON-DESTRUCTIVE EVALUATION AND WELD-TO-WELD ADAPTIVE CONTROL OF METAL RESISTANCE SPOT WELDS VIA TOPOGRAPHICAL DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus and method for non-destructive evaluation of resistance spot welds uses a line laser triangulation sensor, a linear encoder, and a device for moving the welds relative to the sensor to measure the three-dimensional shape of one or both surfaces of the weld. The shape data is analyzed by an artificially intelligent system that predicts weld quality based upon the shape data. The gradient normal of points on the weld surface that are high are indicative of high slope attributable to electrode degradation which can be correlated to weld quality in making the prediction. The apparatus and technique can also be applied to the evaluation of RSR joints.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for assessing a weld joint, comprising:
projecting, via a projector, a laser line on a surface of a resistance spot welded (RSW) weld joint;
receiving, by a sensor, light reflected from the surface;
producing shape data defining a three-dimensional shape of the surface based on the light reflected from the surface;
based at least in part upon the shape data, predicting a quality of the weld joint, wherein the predicting includes comparing the shape data to model shape data corresponding to a plurality of model weld joints; and
generating, by the computer, an output in response to the quality of the weld joint as predicted.
2. The method of claim 1, comprising:
measuring, using a position sensor, a location of the sensor relative to the weld joint, wherein the shape data is determined based on the light reflected from the surface and the location of the sensor relative to the weld joint.
3. The method of claim 2, comprising:
moving one of the sensor or the weld joint from a first position to a second position.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the output comprises at least one of:
display data; an auditory signal; a control signal to modify one or more of a current or a pressure applied by a welder forming the weld joint; and a control signal to stop a welding operation.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the model shape data includes a plurality of shape data correlated to weld quality based on machine intelligence trained with training data including the plurality of shape data correlated to weld quality.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the shape data includes roughness, skewness, root mean square (RMS), peak-to-peak distance, valley depth, peak height, and combinations thereof.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the shape data includes slope data and the predicting is based on the slope data.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the weld joint has two side surfaces and the surface of the weld joint is one of the two side surfaces.
9. The method of claim 8, comprising:
projecting, via the sensor, the laser line on the other of the two side surfaces of the weld joint;
receiving, by the sensor, light reflected from the other of the two side surfaces of the weld joint;
determining second shape data defining a three-dimensional shape of the other of the two side surfaces of the weld joint based on the light reflected from the other of the two side surfaces of the weld joint;
predicting a quality of the weld joint based upon the second shape data of the weld joint, wherein the predicting includes comparing the second shape data of the weld joint to model shape data corresponding to a plurality of model weld joints; and
generating, by the computer, another output in response to the quality of the weld joint as predicted.
10. The method of claim 1, comprising:
a second resistance spot welded weld joint, the method including:
projecting, via the sensor, the laser line on a surface of the second weld joint;
receiving, by the sensor, light reflected from the surface of the second weld joint;
determining shape data defining a three-dimensional shape of the surface of the second weld joint based on the light reflected from the surface of the second weld joint;
predicting a quality of the second weld joint based upon the shape data of the second weld joint, wherein the predicting includes comparing the shape data of the second weld joint to model shape data corresponding to a plurality of model weld joints; and
generating, by the computer, another output in response to the quality of the second weld joint as predicted.
11. The method of claim 1, comprising:
repeating the method for a plurality of weld joints in a batch process.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the weld joint joins a first member to a second member, and at least one of the first member and the second member are made of aluminum or an aluminum alloy.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the predicting the quality of the weld includes classifying a weld as either good or discrepant.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein in response to predicting the weld is discrepant, the output includes a control signal to modify one or more of a current or a pressure applied by a welder forming the weld joint.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein in response to predicting the weld is discrepant, the output includes a control signal to perform a supplemental weld.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein a location of the supplemental weld is based on a reference weld pattern.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the shape data includes separating a first portion of the shape data associated with the weld joint from a second portion of the shape data associated with an adjacent un-welded area and replacing outliers in the shape data with interpolated values from neighboring points.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the separating includes finding a minimum Z-value within a sample of the shape data, assigning the minimum Z-value to be a center of a weld dimple, and calculating a location of a remainder of the weld dimple based upon geometry of a welding electrode that made the weld dimple.
19. An apparatus for assessing weld quality of weld joints in a welded structure, comprising:
a line laser triangulation sensor;
a linear encoder;
a device for moving the welded structure relative to the line laser triangulation sensor, the linear encoder configured to measure movement of the welded structure relative to the line laser triangulation sensor;
a computer with a three-dimensional measuring routine runnable thereon, the computer configured to receive as input, outputs of the line laser triangulation sensor and the linear encoder, and to calculate three-dimensional measurements of a surface of the weld joints, the computer further configured to predict a weld quality based on the threedimensional measurements relative to a plurality of model weld joints, and to output an indicator of the weld quality of the weld joints.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, comprising:
a welding apparatus communicatively coupled to the computer, wherein in response to the output of the indicator being a discrepant weld, the computer is configured to modify one or more control parameters of the welding apparatus.
</claims>
</document>
