<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B17/29,A61B18/14,A61B34/00,A61B34/37,A61B90/00,A61B90/60,B25J13/02,B25J13/06,B25J13/08,B25J15/00,G01D5/34,G01L5/166,G06F3/0338,G06F3/042
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ETHICON
</assignee>

<inventors>
SWAYZE, JEFFREY, S.
JOHNSON, GREGORY, W.
SCHEIB, CHARLES, J.
DENLINGER, Clinton W.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69845478
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INPUT CONTROLS FOR ROBOTIC SURGERY
</title>

<abstract>
An input control device is disclosed. The input control device includes a central portion coupled to a multi-axis force and torque sensor, which is configured to receive input control motions from a surgeon. The central portion is flexibly supported on a base. The input control device also includes a rotary joint coupled to a rotary sensor. The input control device is configured to provide control motions to a robotic arm and/or a robotic tool based on input controls detected by the multi-axis force and torque sensor and the rotary sensor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A control system for a surgical robot, the control system comprising:
a base;
a central portion flexibly supported by the base;
a wrist longitudinally offset from the central portion and rotationally coupled to the central portion,
a multi-axis sensor arrangement configured to detect user input forces applied to the central portion;
a rotary sensor configured to detect user input motions applied to the wrist;
a memory; and
a processor communicatively coupled to the memory, wherein the processor is configured to:
receive a plurality of first input signals from the multi-axis sensor arrangement; provide a plurality of first output signals to the surgical robot based on the plurality of first input signals;
receive a plurality of second input signals from the rotary sensor; and provide a plurality of second output signals to the surgical robot based on the plurality of second input signals.
2. The control system of Claim 1 , wherein the plurality of first input signals correspond to forces and moments applied to the central portion in three-dimensional space.
3. The control system of Claim 2, wherein the plurality of first output signals correspond to translation and rotation of a surgical tool coupled to the surgical robot.
4. The control system of Claim 3, wherein the plurality of second input signals correspond to rotational displacement of the wrist relative to the base in three-dimensional space.
5. The control system of Claim 4, wherein the plurality of second output signals correspond to a rolling motion of the surgical tool.
6. The control system of Claim 5, wherein the central portion comprises a joystick, and wherein a shaft extends between the joystick and the wrist.
7. The control system of Claim 1 , further comprising:
a jaw movably supported on the wrist, wherein the jaw is movable between an open configuration and a clamped configuration; and
a jaw sensor configured to detect movement of the jaw,
wherein the processor is further configured to:
receive a plurality of third input signals from the jaw sensor; and
provide a plurality of third output signals to the surgical robot indicative of an actuation motion of a jaw member of a surgical tool coupled to the surgical robot.
8. A control system for a surgical robot, the control system comprising:
a first control input comprising a flexibly-supported joystick;
a memory; and
a control circuit communicatively coupled to the memory, wherein the memory stores instructions executable by the control circuit to:
switch the control system between a first mode and a second mode; receive a plurality of first input signals from the first control input; scale the plurality of first input signals by a first multiplier in the first mode; and scale the plurality of first input signals by a second multiplier in the second mode, wherein the second multiplier is different than the first multiplier.
9. The control system of Claim 8, wherein the flexibly-supported joystick is operably coupled to a multi-axis force and torque sensor configured to detect forces and moments applied to the flexibly-supported joystick, and wherein the plurality of first input signals correspond to output signals from the multi-axis force and torque sensor.
10. The control system of Claim 8, wherein the first mode corresponds to a gross motion mode, and wherein the second mode corresponds to a precision motion mode.
1 1 . The control system of Claim 10, wherein the control circuit is communicatively coupled to a proximity detection system, and wherein the control circuit is further configured to:
receive a proximity signal from the proximity detection system; and
switch the control system from the first mode to the second mode when the proximity signal corresponds to a proximity less than a threshold value.
12. The control system of Claim 8, further comprising:
a second control input comprising a rotatable wrist, wherein the control circuit is further configured to:
receive a plurality of second input signals from the second control input;
scale the plurality of second input signals by a third multiplier in the first mode; and
scale the plurality of second input signals by a fourth multiplier in the second mode, wherein the fourth multiplier is different than the third multiplier.
13. The control system of Claim 12, further comprising a rotary sensor configured to detect rotation of the rotatable wrist, wherein the plurality of second input signals correspond to output signals from the rotary sensor.
14. The control system of Claim 12, further comprising a shaft extending from the flexiblysupported joystick, wherein the rotatable wrist is configured to rotate on the shaft.
15. The control system of Claim 14, further comprising:
a pair of opposing actuators pivotably supported on the shaft; and
a sensor configured to detect pivoting movement of the pair of opposing actuators.
16. A control system for a surgical robot, the control system comprising:
a first input comprising a flexibly-supported joystick and a multi-axis force and torque sensor arrangement configured to detect user input forces and torques applied to the flexiblysupported joystick;
a second input comprising a rotary joint and a rotary sensor configured to detect user input motions applied to the rotary joint;
a control unit configured to:
provide a first plurality of output signals to the surgical robot based on actuation of the first input; and
provide a second plurality of output signals to the surgical robot based on actuation of the second input.
17. The control system of Claim 16, wherein the flexibly-supported joystick is spring-biased to an upright position.
18. The control system of Claim 16, wherein the control unit is communicatively coupled a proximity detection system, and wherein the control unit is further configured to:
receive a proximity signal from the proximity detection system;
scale the user input forces and torques detected by the multi-axis force and torque sensor arrangement by a first factor when the proximity signal is greater than a threshold value; and
scale the user input forces and torques detected by the multi-axis force and torque sensor arrangement by a second factor when the proximity signal is equal to or less than the threshold value, and wherein the second factor is different than the first factor.
19. The control system of Claim 18, wherein the second factor is less than the first factor.
20. The control system of Claim 18, wherein the control unit is further configured to ignore the user input motions applied to the rotary joint when the proximity signal is greater than a critical value.
21 . A control system, comprising:
a robotic surgical tool;
a tissue proximity detection system configured to intraoperatively detect a distance between the robotic surgical tool and an anatomical structure;
a user input device, comprising:
a base comprising a force sensor;
a forearm support movably coupled to the base, wherein the forearm support is movable relative to the base within a travel zone;
a shaft extending distally from the forearm support;
a handpiece extending distally from the shaft, wherein the handpiece comprises a jaw; and
a jaw sensor configured to detect pivotal movement of the jaw;
wherein the forearm support, the shaft, and the handpiece are movable together as a collective unit as the forearm support moves relative to the base within the travel zone, and wherein the user input device further comprises a displacement sensor configured to detect movement of the collective unit; and
a control circuit communicatively coupled to the force sensor, the displacement sensor, and the jaw sensor, wherein the control circuit is configured to:
receive first input signals from the force sensor;
receive second input signals from the displacement sensor;
receive third input signals from the jaw sensor; and
switch the user input device from a first mode to a second mode in response to input from the tissue proximity detection system indicative of the distance between the robotic surgical tool and the anatomical structure being reduced to less than a threshold distance, wherein the first input signals control movements of the robotic surgical tool in the first mode, and wherein the second input signals and the third input signals control movements of the robotic surgical tool in the second mode.
22. The control system of Claim 21 , wherein the travel zone comprises a three-dimensional space surrounding a forearm home position, wherein the forearm support is spring-biased toward the forearm home position, and wherein the three-dimensional space extends in all directions between 2.0 cm and 6.0 cm from the forearm home position.
23. The control system of Claim 21 , wherein the forearm support comprises a curved arc forming a cuff, and wherein the cuff is dimensioned to at least partially surround a surgeon's arm.
24. The control system of Claim 21 , wherein the tissue proximity detection system comprises a structured light source on the robotic surgical tool.
25. A control system, comprising:
a tissue proximity detection system;
a user input device, comprising:
a base;
a forearm support movably coupled to the base, wherein the forearm support is movable relative to the base within a travel zone;
a shaft extending distally from the forearm support; a handpiece extending distally from the shaft, wherein the handpiece comprises a jaw configured to pivot relative to the shaft; and
a plurality of sensors comprising:
a first sensor arrangement configured to detect user input forces to the base;
a second sensor arrangement configured to detect displacement of the forearm support; and
a third sensor arrangement configured to detect pivotal motion of the jaw; and
a control circuit configured to:
receive proximity data signals from the tissue proximity detection system;
receive first input signals from the first sensor arrangement;
receive second input signals from the second sensor arrangement; receive third input signals from the third sensor arrangement; and switch the user input device from a first mode to a second mode in response to proximity data signals from the tissue proximity detection system indicating a predefined tissue proximity, wherein the first input signals control movements of the robotic surgical tool in the first mode, and wherein the second input signals and the third input signals control movements of the robotic surgical tool in the second mode.
26. A user input device for controlling a robotic surgical tool, the user input device comprising:
a base comprising a first sensor arrangement;
a forearm support movably coupled to the base, wherein the forearm support is movable relative to the base within a travel zone, and wherein the forearm support comprises a second sensor arrangement; and
a control circuit configured to:
receive first input signals from the first sensor arrangement;
receive second input signals from the second sensor arrangement; and switch the user input device between a first mode, in which the first input signals control movements of the robotic surgical tool, and a second mode, in which the second input signals control movements of the robotic surgical tool.
27. The user input device of Claim 26, wherein the control circuit is communicatively coupled to a tissue proximity detection system, and wherein the control circuit is configured to switch the user input device between the first mode and the second mode in response to input from the tissue proximity detection system.
28. The user input device of Claim 27, wherein the first mode comprises a gross motion mode, wherein the second mode comprises a precision motion mode, and wherein the control circuit is configured to switch the user input device between the gross motion mode and the precision motion mode when the tissue proximity detection system provides a proximity signal indicative of the robotic surgical tool being positioned less than a threshold distance from an anatomical structure.
29. The user input device of Claim 26, wherein the first sensor arrangement comprises a six degree-of-freedom force and torque sensor.
30. The user input device of Claim 29, wherein the first sensor arrangement comprises a joystick movable in a three-dimensional space around an input home position, wherein the three-dimensional space extends in all directions between 1 .0 mm and 5.0 mm from the input home position, and wherein the joystick is spring-biased toward the input home position.
31 . The user input device of Claim 26, wherein the second sensor arrangement comprises a displacement sensor.
32. The user input device of Claim 31 , wherein the travel zone comprises a threedimensional space surrounding a forearm home position, and wherein the forearm support is spring-biased toward the forearm home position.
33. The user input device of Claim 32, wherein the three-dimensional space extends in all directions between 2.0 cm and 6.0 cm from the forearm home position.
34. The user input device of Claim 26, wherein the forearm support comprises a curved arc forming a sleeve, and wherein the sleeve is dimensioned to at least partially surround a surgeon's arm.
35. The user input device of Claim 26, further comprising:
a shaft extending distally from the forearm support;
a handpiece extending distally from the shaft and comprising a first jaw and a second jaw, wherein the first jaw and the second jaw are pivotable relative to the shaft within a range of motion; and
a jaw sensor arrangement configured to detect pivotal motion of the first jaw and the second jaw within the range of motion.
36. The user input device of Claim 35, wherein the jaw sensor arrangement is
communicatively coupled to the control circuit, and wherein the control circuit is further configured to:
receive third input signals from the jaw sensor arrangement; and
provide output signals to the robotic surgical tool to control actuation of one or more jaws of an end effector of the robotic surgical tool.
37. The user input device of Claim 35, further comprising:
a first finger loop on the first jaw positioned and dimensioned to receive at least one digit of a surgeon's hand; and
a second finger loop on the second jaw positioned and dimensioned to receive at least one digit of the surgeon's hand.
38. The user input device of Claim 35, further comprising:
a rotary joint intermediate the handpiece and the shaft; and
a rotary sensor configured to detection rotary motion of the handpiece relative to the shaft.
39. The user input device of Claim 35, wherein the handpiece further comprises an actuator communicatively coupled to the control circuit, and wherein the control circuit is further configured to:
receive input actuation signals from the actuator; and
provide output actuation signals to the robotic surgical tool to actuate a surgical function.
40. The user input device of Claim 39, wherein the actuator is selected from a group consisting of a trigger, a button, a switch, a lever, a toggle, and combinations thereof.
41 . A control system for a robotic surgical tool, the control system comprising: an untethered handpiece, comprising:
a body;
a joystick extending from the body;
a rotatable shaft extending from the body; and
a plurality of sensors comprising a body sensor embedded in the body and configured to detect motion of the body in three-dimensional space, a multi-axis force sensor configured to detect forces applied to the joystick, and a shaft sensor configured to detect rotary displacement of the shaft relative to the body; and
a control circuit communicatively coupled to the plurality of sensors and a proximity detection system, the control circuit configured to:
receive proximity signals from the proximity detection system, wherein the proximity signals are indicative of a proximity of the robotic surgical tool to tissue;
receive input control signals from the plurality of sensors;
switch between a gross motion mode and a precision motion mode in response to receiving a proximity signal indicating the proximity being reduced to less than a threshold value;
provide gross motion control signals to the robotic surgical tool based on the input control signals from the multi-axis force sensor in the gross motion mode; and
provide precision motion control signals to the robotic surgical tool based on the input control signals from the body sensor and the shaft sensor in the precision motion mode.
42. The control system of Claim 41 , wherein the joystick comprises a loop dimensioned and positioned to receive a user's thumb.
43. The control system of Claim 41 , wherein the body sensor is selected from a group consisting of an inertial sensor and an electromagnetic tracking receiver.
44. The control system of Claim 41 , wherein the shaft sensor is selected from a group consisting of a rotary transducer, strain gauge, and an optical sensor.
45. A control system for a robotic surgical tool, the control system comprising: an untethered handpiece, comprising:
a body;
an actuator extending from the body;
a rotatable shaft extending from the body; and
a plurality of sensors comprising a body sensor embedded in the body and configured to detect motion of the body in three-dimensional space, a force sensor configured to detect forces applied to the actuator, and a shaft sensor configured to detect rotary
displacement of the shaft relative to the body;
a proximity detection system configured to detect a proximity of the robotic surgical tool to tissue; and
a control circuit communicatively coupled to the plurality of sensors and the proximity detection system, the control circuit configured to:
receive proximity signals from the proximity detection system, wherein the proximity signals are indicative of the proximity of the robotic surgical tool to tissue;
receive input control signals from the plurality of sensors;
switch between a first mode and a second mode in response to receiving a proximity signal indicating the proximity being reduced to less than a threshold value;
provide first motion control signals to the robotic surgical tool based on the input control signals from the force sensor in the first mode, wherein the first motion control signals are scaled based on the proximity signal; and
provide second motion control signals to the robotic surgical tool based on the input control signals from the body sensor and the shaft sensor in the second mode.
46. The control system of Claim 45, wherein the proximity detection system comprises a structured light source and an optical receiver.
47. The control system of Claim 45, wherein the shaft further comprises a radial sensor configured to detect radial forces applied to the shaft, and wherein the control circuit is further configured to:
receive input control signals from the radial sensor; and
provide output control signals to the robotic surgical tool based on the input control signals from the radial sensor, wherein the output control signals are configured to apply closure motions to one or more jaws of the robotic surgical tool.
48. A control system for a robotic surgical tool, the control system comprising: an untethered handpiece, comprising:
a body;
an actuation arm extending proximally from the body;
a shaft extending distally from the body; and
a plurality of sensors comprising a body sensor embedded in the body and configured to detect motion of the body in three-dimensional space, an arm sensor configured to detect forces applied to the actuation arm, and a shaft sensor configured to detect rotary displacement of the shaft relative to the body; and
a control circuit communicatively coupled to the plurality of sensors and a proximity detection system, the control circuit configured to:
receive proximity signals from the proximity detection system, wherein the proximity signals are indicative of a proximity of the robotic surgical tool to tissue;
receive input control signals from the plurality of sensors;
switch between a gross motion mode and a precision motion mode in response to receiving a proximity signal indicating the proximity being reduced to less than a threshold value;
provide output control signals to the robotic surgical tool based on the input control signals from the arm sensor in the gross motion mode; and
provide output control signals to the robotic surgical tool based on the input control signals from the body sensor and the shaft sensor in the precision motion mode.
49. The control system of Claim 48, wherein the actuation arm comprises a joystick movably coupled to the body at a space joint.
50. The control system of Claim 49, wherein the joystick comprises a ring dimensioned and positioned to receive a user's thumb.
51 . The control system of Claim 49, wherein the arm sensor comprises a multi-axis force sensor positioned at the space joint.
52. The control system of Claim 48, wherein the body sensor comprises an inertial sensor.
53. The control system of Claim 48, wherein the body sensor comprises an electromagnetic tracking receiver.
54. The control system of Claim 48, wherein the proximity detection system comprises a structured light source.
55. The control system of Claim 48, wherein the control circuit is further configured to scale the output control signals based on the input control signals received by the arm sensor in the gross motion mode in response to the proximity signals received from the proximity detection system.
56. The control system of Claim 55, wherein the control circuit is further configured to reduce the output control signals in the gross motion mode in response to the proximity signals indicating the robotic surgical tool is approaching tissue.
57. The control system of Claim 48, wherein the untethered handpiece further comprises a lock for the actuation arm, wherein the lock is movable from an unlocked position to a locked position in response to receiving the proximity signal indicating the proximity being reduced to less than the threshold value.
58. The control system of Claim 48, wherein the body further comprises a spring-loaded actuation button movable between an initial position and a depressed position, and wherein the output control signals based on the input control signals detected by the body sensor in the gross motion mode are only provided to the robotic surgical tool when the spring-loaded actuation button is moved to the depressed position.
59. The control system of Claim 48, wherein the shaft further comprises a radial sensor configured to detect radial forces applied to the shaft, and wherein the control circuit is further configured to:
receive input control signals from the radial sensor; and
provide output control signals to the robotic surgical tool based on the input control signals from the radial sensor to apply closure motions to one or more jaws of the robotic surgical tool.
60. The control system of Claim 48, wherein the untethered handpiece further comprises a trigger and a trigger sensor configured to detect an actuation of the trigger, and wherein the control circuit is further configured to:
receive input control signals from the trigger sensor; and
provide output control signals to the robotic surgical tool based on the input control signals from the trigger sensor to apply closure motions to one or more jaws of the robotic surgical tool.
61 . A control system for a robotic surgical tool, the control system comprising:
an untethered handpiece, comprising:
a gross motion controller comprising a multi-axis sensor;
a precision motion controller comprising an embedded motion sensor; and a control circuit communicatively coupled to the multi-axis sensor, the embedded motion sensor, and a proximity detection system, the control circuit configured to:
receive proximity signals from the proximity detection system indicative of a proximity of the robotic surgical tool to tissue; and
switch between a gross motion mode, in which input control signals from the gross motion controller are utilized to control the robotic surgical tool, and a precision motion mode, in which input control signals from the precision motion controller are utilized to control the robotic surgical tool, in response to receiving a proximity signal indicating the proximity being reduced to less than a threshold value.
</claims>
</document>
