<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/024,A61B5/0482,A61M21/02,A61M31/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BATES, DAVID W.
NANJI, Karen C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72609132
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTRAOPERATIVE CLINICAL DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for intraoperative real-time clinical decision support. A system includes a processor, a non-transitory computer readable medium, storing executable instructions, and an output device. An interface is configured to receive a first set of patient data in real-time from at least one sensor monitoring vital signals of a patient during a surgical procedure and a second set of patient data in real-time from an anesthesia machine during the surgical procedure. An input interface receives an indicator representing at least an identity of a therapeutic to be administered to the patient. A machine learning model determines from the indicator, the first set of patient data, and the second set of patient data if an alert should be provided to a user. The output device provides the alert to the user if the machine learning model determines that the alert should be provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1 . A system comprising:
a processor;
a non-transitory computer readable medium, storing executable instructions, the executable instructions comprising:
an interface configured to receive a first set of patient data in real-time from at least one sensor monitoring vital signals of a patient during a surgical procedure and a second set of patient data in real-time from an anesthesia machine during the surgical procedure;
an input interface that receives an indicator representing at least an identity of a therapeutic to be administered to the patient; and
a machine learning model that determines from the indicator, the first set of patient data, and the second set of patient data if an alert should be provided to a user; and
an output device that provides the alert to the user if the machine learning model determines that the alert should be provided to the user.
2. The system of claim 1 , the executable instructions further comprising a network interface configured to retrieve information associated with the patient from an electronic health records database.
3. The system of claim 3, the executable instructions further comprising a retraining engine that retrains the machine learning model according to patient outcomes retrieved from the electronic health records database.
4. The system of claim 1 , the executable instructions further comprising a retraining engine that retrains the machine learning model according to feedback from the user given in response to the alert.
5. The system of claim 1 , wherein the machine learning model comprises a rulebased expert system, comprising a plurality of rule sets, each rule set determining if an alert should be provided to a user from at least one of the indicator, the first set of patient data, and the second set of patient data.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the rule-based expert system comprises at least one rule set that determines, from at least the indicator, if the therapeutic should be administered to the patient.
7. A method comprising:
receiving patient data from one of a sensor monitoring a patient during a surgical procedure, an anesthesia machine, and an electronic health records database;
receiving an indicator representing at least an identity of a therapeutic to be administered to the patient; and
selecting a rule set of a plurality of rule sets according to the identity of the therapeutic to be administered to the patient;
evaluating the rule set according to the patient data to determine if a user should be alerted;
alerting a user if the rule set indicates that a user should be alerted; and sending the identity of the therapeutic to an associated system for
documentation.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the method further comprises administering the therapeutic to the patient, the patient data includes a first parameter that indicates if an action has been taken by a caregiver, and evaluating the rule set comprises determining that an alert is necessary if the first parameter indicates that the action has not been taken within a predetermined time period after administering the therapeutic.
9. The method of claim 7, evaluating the rule set according to the patient data to determine if the user should be alerted comprises determining, from at least the indicator, if the therapeutic should be administered to the patient.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the indicator further represents a dosage of the therapeutic and determining if the therapeutic should be administered to the patient comprises determining that the therapeutic should not be administered to the patient if the dosage is not within a defined range.
1 1 . The method of claim 10, wherein the patient data comprises a first parameter and determining if the therapeutic should be administered to the patient further comprises selecting the defined range according to the first parameter, such that a first defined range is used if the first parameter assumes a first value and a second defined range is used if the first parameter assumes a second value.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein determining if the therapeutic should be administered to the patient comprises determining that the therapeutic should not be administered to the patient if a dose of the therapeutic was prepared more than a threshold period of time before it is to be administered.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the therapeutic is a first therapeutic, and determining if the therapeutic should be administered to the patient comprises determining that the first therapeutic should not be administered to the patient if a second therapeutic is currently being administered to the patient on an intravenous line through which the first therapeutic is to be administered.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the patient data comprises a first parameter and determining if the therapeutic should be administered to the patient comprises determining that the therapeutic should not be administered to the patient if the first parameter assumes a first value.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the first parameter is a categorical parameter representing a diagnosis of a medical condition for the patient.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the first parameter is a categorical parameter representing a diagnosis of a medical condition for the patient within a predetermined time period before administration of the therapeutic.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the first parameter is a categorical parameter representing administration of a dose of a medication within a
predetermined time period before administration of the therapeutic.
18. The method of claim 7, further comprising altering at least one of the plurality of rule sets according to patient outcomes retrieved from the electronic health records database.
19. The method of claim 7, further comprising receiving an input from the user representing disagreement with the alert and altering at least one of the plurality of rule sets according to the input from the user.
20. A system comprising:
a processor;
a non-transitory computer readable medium, storing executable instructions, the executable instructions comprising:
an interface configured to receive a first set of patient data in real-time from at least one sensor monitoring vital signals of a patient during a surgical procedure and a second set of data in real-time from an anesthesia machine;
an anesthesia information management system (AIMS) interface configured to receive a third set of patient data from an AIMS during the surgical procedure;
a network interface configured to retrieve a fourth set of patient data associated with the patient from an electronic health records database;
an input interface that receives an indicator representing at least an identity of a therapeutic to be administered to the patient; and
a rule-based expert system, comprising a plurality of rule sets, each rule set determining if an alert should be provided to a user from at least one of the indicator, the first set of patient data, the second set of patient data, and the third set of patient data; and
a retraining engine that retrains at least a subset of the plurality of rule sets according to a set of labelled training samples, each training sample including at least a portion of the data comprising the indicator, the first set of patient data, the second set of patient data, and the third set of patient data, as well as a label derived from at least one of patient outcomes retrieved from the electronic health records database and disagreements indicated by users; and
an output device that provides the alert to the user if a rule set of the plurality of rule sets determines that the alert should be provided to the user, wherein the user can indicate disagreement with the alert via the input interface.
</claims>
</document>
