<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/10,G06T1/40,G06T7/00,G16H30/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DENSITAS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDOLELL, MOHAMED
BARZILAI, DAN
CHUNG, DESMOND
DUGGAN, RYAN
GHAZANFARI, AMIN
HU, NING
PAQUET, NICOLE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70773039
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ASSESSING MEDICAL IMAGES
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for performing assessment of medical images is described herein in which various graphical user interface tools allow a user to view various scores of certain parameters that may indicate non-conformities5 in a given image or in a study that includes several images.
</abstract>

<claims>
1 . A computer-implemented method for determining digital medical image quality, wherein the method comprises:
receiving a first medical image at a processor, the first medical image being associated with a plurality of image metadata;
determining a predicted image quality score based on the first medical image and a first predictive model at the processor, wherein the first predictive model is a multivariate model; and
providing an output in a graphical user interface on a display device where the output indicates the predicted image quality score.
2. The method of claim 1 , further comprising:
determining a plurality of image quality parameter features based on the first medical image and optionally the plurality of metadata associated with the medical image;
determining a predicted plurality of image quality parameter scores by applying at least some of the plurality of image quality parameter features as inputs to a plurality of predictive models where each predictive model corresponds to one of the plurality of predicted image quality parameter scores; determining a predicted image quality score by applying the predicted plurality of image quality parameter scores, and optionally the plurality of image quality parameter features, as inputs to an overall predictive model; and
providing the output in the graphical user interface on the display device to indicate at least one of the predicted image quality score and the predicted plurality of image quality parameter scores to the graphical user interface on the display.
3. The method of claim 1 , further comprising:
determining a plurality of image quality parameter features based on the first medical image and optionally the plurality of image metadata associated with the medical image; determining a predicted image quality score by applying the predicted plurality of image quality parameter scores as inputs to an overall predictive model; and
providing the output in the graphical user interface on the display device to indicate at least one of the predicted image quality score and the predicted plurality of image quality parameter scores.
4. The method of claim 1 , further comprising:
determining a plurality of image quality parameter features based on the first medical image and optionally the plurality of image metadata associated with the medical image;
determining a predicted image quality parameter score by applying at least some of the predicted image quality parameter features as inputs to a second predictive model that corresponds with the image quality parameter score; and
providing the output in the graphical user interface on the display device to indicate the predicted image quality parameter score.
5. The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of image metadata comprises at least one of acquisition settings data, patient data, device data, institution data, and MRT data.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising;
receiving a second medical image at the processor, the second medical image associated with a second plurality of image metadata;
determining a second plurality of image quality parameter features based on the second medical image and optionally the second plurality of image metadata associated with the second medical image;
determining a second plurality of image quality parameter scores by applying at least some of the second plurality of image quality parameter features as inputs to the plurality of predictive models where each predictive model corresponds to one of the image quality parameter scores; determining a second predicted image quality score by applying the second predicted plurality of image quality parameter scores, and optionally the second plurality of image quality parameter features, as second inputs to the overall predictive model;
providing a second output in the graphical user interface on the display device to indicate at least one of the second predicted image quality score and the second predicted plurality of predicted image quality parameter scores to the graphical user interface on the display device; and
providing a combined output in the graphical user interface on the display device based on at least one of the predicted image quality score, the predicted plurality of predicted image quality parameter scores, the second predicted image quality score, and the second predicted plurality of predicted image quality parameter scores.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the first medical image and the second medical image are based on a same view of a patient.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: displaying a report card interface on the display device based on the combined output.
9. The method of claim 1 , wherein the report card in the graphical user interface further comprises a graph comparing one of the image qualities of the first medical image and the second medical image to an average image quality.
10. The method of claim 2, further comprising:
mapping a given predicted image quality parameter score to a predicted image parameter index based on applying a threshold to the given image quality parameter score, where the threshold is based on an operating point on a Receiver Operator Characteristic curve for the predictive model that was used to generate the given predicted image quality parameter score; and
providing the output to the graphical user interface on the display device to indicate the indexed image quality parameter score.
1 1. The method of any one of claims 2 to 4, further comprising: mapping a predicted image quality score to a predicted image quality index by applying a threshold to the given image quality score, where the threshold is based on an operating point on a Receiver Operator Characteristic curve for the predictive model that was used to generate the predicted image quality score; and
providing the output to the graphical user interface on the display device to indicate the indexed image quality score.
12. The method of claim 10 or claim 11 , further comprising:
displaying a user configurable operating point on the graphical user interface for a Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve corresponding to the predictive model;
receiving a first user input for the user configurable operating point to adjust the location of an operating point on the ROC curve; and
adjusting the operating point of the ROC curve according to the first user input to alter prediction accuracy for the predictive model.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising:
displaying a user configurable predicted image quality parameter feature threshold on the graphical user interface;
receiving a second user input to adjust the user configurable predicted image quality parameter feature threshold;
adjusting the user configurable predicted image quality parameter feature threshold according to the second user input; and
updating the mapping of the predicted image quality score to the predicted image quality index due to the adjusted user configurable predicted image quality parameter feature threshold.
14. The method of claim 12 or claim 13, further comprising:
initially displaying a set of first medical images and a set of second medical images in first and second display areas on the graphical user interface; identifying any of the first medical images that need to be moved from the first display area to the second display area and any of the second medical images that need to be moved from the second display area to the first display area based on changes in at least one of the operating point on the ROC curve and the user configurable predicted image quality parameter feature threshold due to the first and second user inputs; and
moving the identified first medical images from the first display area to the second display area and moving the identified second medical images from the second display area to the first display area.
15. The method of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein a given predictive model is implemented using machine learning and statistical learning models.
16. The method of any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein a given predictive model is implemented using a deep learning model including a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN).
17. The method of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein a given predictive model is implemented using a generalized linear model with a logit or a generalized additive model with a logit link.
18. A system of determining medical image quality, comprising:
a memory unit, the memory unit storing a plurality of predictive models that are multivariate models;
a display device;
a processing unit in communication with the memory unit and the display device, the processor unit having a processor being configured to:
receive a first medical image and an associated plurality of image metadata;
determine a predicted image quality score based on the first medical image and one of the predictive models;
generate a graphical user interface; and provide an output to the display device, the output including the graphical user interface and the predicted image quality score.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to:
determine a plurality of image quality parameter features based on the first medical image and optionally the plurality of metadata associated with the medical image;
determine a predicted plurality of image quality parameter scores by applying at least some of the plurality of image quality parameter features as inputs to a plurality of predictive models where each predictive model corresponds to one of the plurality of predicted image quality parameter scores;
determine a predicted image quality score by applying the predicted plurality of image quality parameter scores, and optionally the plurality of image quality parameter features, as inputs to an overall predictive model; and
provide the output to the display device, the output including the graphical user interface and at least one of the predicted image quality score and the predicted plurality of image quality parameter scores.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the processing unit is further configured to:
receive a second medical image at the processor, the second medical image associated with a second plurality of image metadata;
determine a second plurality of image quality parameter features based on the second medical image and optionally the second plurality of image metadata associated with the second medical image;
determine a second plurality of image quality parameter scores by applying at least some of the second plurality of image quality parameter features as inputs to the plurality of predictive models where each predictive model corresponds to one of the image quality parameter scores; determ in e a second predicted image quality score by applying the second predicted plurality of image quality parameter scores, and optionally the second plurality of image quality parameter features, as second inputs to the overall predictive model;
provide the second output in the graphical user interface on the display device to indicate at least one of the second predicted image quality score and the second predicted plurality of predicted image quality parameter scores to the graphical user interface on the display device; and
provide a combined output in the graphical user interface on the display device based on at least one of the predicted image quality score, the predicted plurality of predicted image quality parameter scores, the second predicted image quality score, and the second predicted plurality of predicted image quality parameter scores.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the first medical image and the second medical image are based on a same view of a patient.
22. The system of claim 21 , wherein the processing unit is further configured to display a report card in the graphical user interface on the display device based on the combined output.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the report card further comprises a graph comparing one of the image qualities of the first medical image and the second medical image to an average image quality.
24. The system of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to:
determine a plurality of image quality parameter features based on the first medical image and optionally the plurality of metadata associated with the first medical image;
determine a predicted image quality score by applying the predicted plurality of image quality parameter scores as inputs to an overall predictive model; and provide the output to the display device, the output including the graphical user interface and at least one of the predicted image quality score and the predicted plurality of image quality parameter scores.
25. The system of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to:
determine a plurality of image quality parameter features based on the first medical image and optionally the plurality of metadata associated with the first medical image;
determine a predicted image quality parameter score by applying at least some of the predicted image quality parameter features as inputs to a predictive model that corresponds with the image quality parameter score; and
provide the output to the display device, the output including the graphical user interface on the display device to indicate the predicted image quality parameter score. 26. The system of any one of claims 18 to 25, wherein the plurality of image metadata stored at the memory unit comprises at least one of: acquisition settings data, patient data, device data, institution data, and MRT data.
27. The system of claim 19, wherein the processor is further configured to:
map a given predicted image quality parameter score to a predicted image parameter index based on applying a threshold to the given image quality parameter score, where the threshold is based on an operating point on a receiver operator characteristic curve for the predictive model that was used to generate the given predicted image quality parameter score; and
provide the output to the display device, the output including the graphical user interface and the indexed image quality parameter score.
28. The system of any one of claims 19, 24 and 25, wherein the processor is further configured to: map a predicted image quality score to a predicted image quality index by applying a threshold to the given image quality score, where the threshold is based on an operating point on a Receiver Operator Characteristic curve for the predictive model that was used to generate the predicted image quality score; and
provide the output to the display device, the output including graphical user interface and the indexed image quality score.
29. The system of claim 27 or claim 28 wherein the processor is further configured to:
display a user configurable operating point on the graphical user interface for a Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve corresponding to the predictive model;
receive a first user input for the user configurable operating point to adjust the location of an operating point on the ROC curve; and
adjust the operating point of the ROC curve according to the first user input to alter prediction accuracy for the predictive model.
30. The system of claim 29 wherein the processor is further configured to: display a user configurable predicted image quality parameter feature threshold on the display device;
receive a second user input to adjust the user configurable predicted image quality parameter feature threshold;
adjust the user configurable predicted image quality parameter feature threshold according to the second user input; and
update the mapping of the predicted image quality score to the predicted image quality index due to the adjusted user configurable predicted image quality parameter feature threshold.
31. The system of claim 29 or claim 30, wherein the processor is further configured to:
initially display a set of first medical images and a set of second medical images in first and second display areas on the graphical user interface; identify any of the first medical images that need to be moved from the first display area to the second display area and any of the second medical images that need to be moved from the second display area to the first display area based on changes in at least one of the operating point on the ROC curve and the user configurable predicted image quality parameter feature threshold due to the first and second user inputs; and
moving the identified first medical images from the first display area to the second display area and moving the identified second medical images from the second display area to the first display area. 32. The system of any one of claims 18 to 29, wherein a given predictive model is implemented using machine learning and statistical learning models.
33. The system of any one of claims 18 to 32, wherein a given predictive model is implemented using a deep learning model including a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN). 34. The system of any one of claims 18 to 33, wherein a given predictive models is implemented using a generalized linear model with a logit or a generalized additive model with a logit link.
35. A computer-implemented method of determining a predictive model at a processor for a given quality parameter score for use in assessing digital medical image quality, wherein the method comprises:
receiving, at the processor, a plurality of medical images each having an associated plurality of image metadata;
determining, using the processor, a plurality of quality parameter features from the plurality of medical images and optionally the associated plurality of image metadata;
receiving, at the processor, a plurality of quality parameter labels and overall quality labels for the medical images from user input from at least one user; determining, using the processor, consensus quality label values from the plurality of image quality parameter labels and overall quality labels; and generating, using the processor, the predictive model as a function of at least some of the plurality of quality parameter features to provide the given quality parameter score by training the predictive model using the consensus quality label values.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein the quality parameter features, the quality parameter scores, the quality parameter labels and the overall quality labels comprise image quality parameter features, image quality parameter scores, image quality parameter labels and overall image quality labels and the predictive model is generated to provide an image quality parameter score or an image quality score.
37. The method of claim 35, wherein the quality parameter features, the quality parameter scores, the quality parameter labels and the overall quality labels comprise study quality parameter features, study quality parameter scores, study quality parameter labels and overall study quality labels and the predictive model is generated to provide a study quality parameter score or a study quality score.
38. The method of any one of claims 35 to 37, wherein the plurality of medical images and the associated plurality of image metadata are user selected.
39. The method of any one of claims 35 to 38, wherein the plurality of associated image metadata comprises at least one of: acquisition settings data, patient data, device data, institution data, and MRT data. 40. The method of any one of claims 35 to 39, wherein generating the predictive model using the processor comprises iteratively selecting a unique subset of the plurality of image quality parameter features to form an intermediate predictive model, determining a receiver operating characteristic curve area for each intermediate predictive model, and selecting the subset of image quality parameter features that are associated with the intermediate predictive model having the highest receiver operating characteristic curve area as inputs for the predictive model.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein the plurality of medical images, the plurality of quality parameter labels and the overall quality labels are received continuously to form new training data and the method further comprises, at future time points, performing each of the receiving, determining and generating using updated training data.
42. A system for determining a predictive model for a given image quality parameter score or a given study quality parameter score for use in assessing digital medical image quality, wherein the system comprises:
a memory unit that is adapted to store a plurality of medical images each having an associated plurality of image metadata;
a display device;
a processor unit in communication with the memory unit and the display device, the processor unit having a processor configured to:
determine a plurality of image quality parameter features from the plurality of medical images and optionally the associated plurality of image metadata;
receive a plurality of quality parameter labels and overall quality labels for the medical images from user input from at least one user;
determine consensus quality label values from the plurality of image quality parameter inputs; and
generate the predictive model as a function of at least some of the plurality of quality parameter features to provide the given quality parameter score by training the predictive model using the consensus quality label values.
43. The system of claim 42, wherein the quality parameter features, the quality parameter scores, the quality parameter labels and the overall quality labels comprise image quality parameter features, image quality parameter scores, image quality parameter labels and overall image quality labels and the predictive model is generated to provide an image quality parameter score or an image quality score.
44. The system of claim 42, wherein the quality parameter features, the quality parameter scores, the quality parameter labels and the overall quality labels comprise study quality parameter features, study quality parameter scores, study quality parameter labels and overall study quality labels and the predictive model is generated to provide a study quality parameter score or a study quality score.
45. The system of any one of claims 42 to 44, wherein the plurality of medical images corresponding and the associated plurality of image metadata are user selected.
46. The system of any one of claim 42 to 45, wherein the plurality of image metadata comprises at last one of: acquisition settings data, patient data, device data, institution data, and MRT data.
47. The system of any one of claims 42 to 46, wherein the processor is further configured to generate the predictive model by iteratively selecting a unique subset of the plurality of image quality parameter features to form an intermediate predictive model, determine a receiver operating characteristic curve area for each intermediate predictive model, and select the subset of image quality parameter features that are associated with the intermediate predictive model having the highest receiver operating characteristic curve area as inputs for the predictive model.
48. The system of claim 47, wherein the plurality of medical images, the plurality of quality parameter labels and the overall quality labels are received continuously to form new training data; and each of the determining, receiving and generating are performed at future time points on the new training data.
49. A computer implemented method for determining digital medical image quality for a medical image study including several medical images, wherein the method comprises:
receiving the medical images at a processor, the medical images each being associated with a plurality of image metadata;
determining a predicted study quality score based on the medical images and a predictive model at the processor, wherein the predictive model is a multivariate model; and
providing an output in a graphical user interface on a display device where the output shows the predicted study quality score.
50. The method of claim 49, wherein the method further comprises:
determining a plurality of study quality parameter features based on the medical images and optionally the pluralities of metadata associated with each of the medical images;
determining a predicted plurality of study quality parameter scores by applying at least some of the study quality parameter features as inputs to a plurality of predictive models where each predictive model corresponds to one of the study quality parameter scores;
determining a predicted study quality score by applying the predicted plurality of study quality parameter scores, and optionally the study quality parameter features, as inputs to an overall study level predictive model; and providing the output in the graphical user interface on the display device to show at least one of the predicted study quality score and the predicted plurality of study quality parameter scores.
51. The method of claim 49, further comprising:
determining a plurality of study quality parameter features based on the medical images and optionally the pluralities of metadata associated with the medical images;
determining a predicted study quality score by applying the predicted plurality of study quality parameter scores as inputs to an overall predictive model; and providing the output in the graphical user interface on the display device to show at least one of the predicted study quality score and the predicted plurality of study quality parameter scores.
52. The method of claim 49, further comprising:
determining a plurality of study quality parameter features based on the medical images and optionally the pluralities of metadata associated with the medical images;
determining a predicted study quality parameter score by applying at least some of the predicted study quality parameter features as inputs to a predictive model that corresponds with the study quality parameter score; and providing the output in the graphical user interface on the display device to show the predicted study quality parameter score.
53. The method of claim 50, further comprising:
mapping a given predicted study quality parameter score to a predicted study parameter index based on applying a threshold to the given study quality parameter score, where the threshold is based on an operating point on a Receiver Operator Characteristic curve for the predictive model that was used to generate the given predicted study quality parameter score; and
providing the output to the graphical user interface on the display device to show the indexed study quality parameter score.
54. The method of any one of claims 50 to 52, further comprising:
mapping a predicted study quality score to a predicted study quality index by applying a threshold to the given study quality score, where the threshold is based on an operating point on a Receiver Operator Characteristic curve for the predictive model that was used to generate the predicted study quality score; and
providing the output to the graphical user interface on the display device to show the indexed study quality score.
55. The method of claim 53, further comprising: - re displaying a user configurable operating point on the graphical user interface for a Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve corresponding to the predictive model
receiving a first user input for the user configurable operating point to adjust the location of an operating point on the ROC curve; and
adjusting the operating point of the ROC curve according to the first user input to alter prediction accuracy for the predictive model.
56. The method of claim 53, further comprising:
displaying a user configurable predicted study quality parameter feature threshold on the graphical user interface;
receiving a second user input to adjust the user configurable predicted study quality parameter feature threshold;
adjusting the user configurable predicted study quality parameter feature threshold according to the second user input; and
updating the mapping of the predicted study quality score to the predicted study quality index due to the adjusted user configurable predicted study quality parameter feature threshold.
57. The method of claim 56 or claim 57, further comprising:
initially displaying a set of first medical images and a set of second medical images in first and second display areas on the graphical user interface;
identifying any of the first medical images that need to be moved from the first display area to the second display area and any of the second medical images that need to be moved from the second display area to the first display area based on changes in at least one of the operating point on the ROC curve and the user configurable predicted study quality parameter feature threshold due to the first and second user inputs; and
moving the identified first medical images from the first display area to the second display area and moving the identified second medical images from the second display area to the first display area.
58. The method of any one of claims 49 to 57, wherein a given predictive model is implemented using machine learning and statistical learning models.
59. The method of any one of claims 49 to 57, wherein a given predictive model is implemented using a deep learning model including a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN).
60. The method of any one of claims 49 to 57, wherein a given predictive model is implemented using a generalized linear model with a logit or a generalized additive model with a logit link.
61. A system for determining digital medical image quality for a medical image study including several medical images, wherein the system comprises: a memory unit, the memory unit storing the medical images, and a plurality of predictive models that are multivariate models;
a display device;
a processing unit in communication with the display device and the memory unit, the processor unit having a processor being configured to:
receive the medical images and associated pluralities of image metadata;
determine a predicted study quality score based on the medical images and one of the predictive models;
generate a graphical user interface; and provide an output to the display device, the output including the graphical user interface and the predicted study quality score.
62. The system of claim 58, wherein the processor is further configured to:
determine a plurality of study quality parameter features based on the medical images and optionally the pluralities of metadata associated with the medical images; determine a predicted plurality of study quality parameter scores by applying at least some of the study quality parameter features as inputs to a plurality of predictive models where each predictive model corresponds to one of the image study parameter scores;
determine a predicted study quality score by applying the predicted plurality of study quality parameter scores, and optionally the study quality parameter features, as inputs to an overall predictive model; and
provide the output to the display device, the output including the graphical user interface and at least one of the predicted study quality score and the predicted plurality of study quality parameter scores.
The system of claim 58, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine a plurality of study quality parameter features based on the medical images and optionally the pluralities of metadata associated with the medical images;
determine a predicted study quality score by applying the predicted plurality of study quality parameter scores as inputs to an overall predictive model; and
provide the output to the display device, the output including the graphical user interface and at least one of the predicted study quality score and the predicted plurality of study quality parameter scores.
The system of claim 58, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine a plurality of study quality parameter features based on the medical images and optionally the pluralities of metadata associated with the medical images;
determine a predicted study quality parameter score by applying at least some of the predicted study quality parameter features as inputs to a predictive model that corresponds with the study quality parameter score; and provide the output to the display device, the output including the graphical user interface on the display device to show the predicted study quality parameter score.
65. The system of claim 62, wherein the processor is further configured to:
map a given predicted study quality parameter score to a predicted study parameter index based on applying a threshold to the given study quality parameter score, where the threshold is based on an operating point on a receiver operator characteristic curve for the predictive model that was used to generate the given predicted study quality parameter score; and
provide the output to the display device, the output including the graphical user interface and the indexed study quality parameter score.
66. The system of any one of claims 62 to 64, wherein the processor is further configured to:
map a predicted study quality score to a predicted study quality index by applying a threshold to the given study quality score, where the threshold is based on an operating point on a Receiver Operator Characteristic curve for the predictive model that was used to generate the predicted study quality score; and
provide the output to the display device, the output including graphical user interface and the indexed study quality score.
67. The system of claim 65 or claim 66, wherein the processor is further configured to display a user configurable operating point on the graphical user interface for a Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve corresponding to the predictive model, receive a first user input for the user configurable operating point for a Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve corresponding to the predictive model and adjust the operating point of the ROC curve according to the first user input to alter prediction accuracy for the predictive model.
68. The system of claim 67, wherein the processor is further configured to: display a user configurable predicted study quality parameter feature threshold on the graphical user interface;
receive a second user input to adjust the user configurable predicted study quality parameter feature threshold;
adjust the user configurable predicted study quality parameter feature threshold according to the second user input; and
updating the mapping of the predicted study quality score to the predicted study quality index due to the adjusted user configurable predicted study quality parameter feature threshold.
69. The system of claim 65 or claim 68, wherein the processor is further configured to:
initially display a set of first medical images and a set of second medical images in first and second display areas on the graphical user interface;
identify any of the first medical images that need to be moved from the first display area to the second display area and any of the second medical images that need to be moved from the second display area to the first display area based on changes in at least one of the operating point on the ROC curve and the user configurable predicted study quality parameter feature threshold due to the first and second user inputs; and
move the identified first medical images from the first display area to the second display area and moving the identified second medical images from the second display area to the first display area.
70. The system of any one of claims 61 to 69, wherein one of the predictive models is implemented using machine learning and statistical learning models.
71. The system of any one of claims 61 to 69, wherein one of the predictive models is implemented using a deep learning model.
72. The system of any one of claims 61 to 69, wherein one of the predictive models is implemented using a generalized linear model with a logit or a generalized additive model with a logit link.
73. A computer-implemented method for allowing for visual assessment of medical images, wherein the method is implemented by a processor and the method comprises:
generating a graphical user interface including a plurality of filter fields; outputting the graphical user interface on a display device for viewing by a user;
receiving at least one filter input from the user;
accessing a database to retrieve a plurality of medical images that satisfy the at least one filter input, the medical images being grouped into studies;
outputting thumbnails of the studies on the graphical user interface on the display device;
receiving a study input indicating the study selected by the user;
accessing the database to retrieve image parameter feature scores and an overall image quality score for each image of the selected study; and
displaying images of the selected study along with the image parameter feature scores and the overall image quality score for each image of the study, and an overall study quality score for the selected study on the graphical user interface on the display device.
74. A system for allowing for visual assessment of medical images, the system comprising:
a memory, the memory comprising a database;
a display device;
a user input device;
a processor in communication with the memory, the display device, and the user input device, the processor being configured to:
generate a graphical user interface including a plurality of filter fields; output the graphical user interface to the display device for viewing by a user;
receive from the user input device at least one filter input from the user;
access the database to retrieve a plurality of medical images that satisfy the at least one filter input, the medical images being grouped into studies;
output thumbnails of the studies on the graphical user interface on the display device;
receive from the user input device a study input indicating the study selected by the user;
access the database to retrieve image parameter feature scores and an overall image quality score for each image of the selected study; and
display images of the selected study along with the image parameter feature scores and the overall image quality score for each image of the study, and an overall study quality score for the selected study on the graphical user interface on the display device.
75. A computer-implemented method for allowing for visual assessment of medical images, wherein the method is implemented by a processor and the method comprises:
generating a graphical user interface including a plurality of filter fields; outputting the graphical user interface on a display device for viewing by a user;
receiving at least one filter input from the user;
accessing a database to retrieve a study that satisfies the at least one filter input, the study including several images and a plurality of image parameter feature scores for each image of the selected study;
outputting thumbnails of the images of the selected study on the graphical user interface on the display; receiving an image selection input from the user indicating the selected image by the user;
displaying a large version of the selected image and the image parameter feature scores that correspond to the selected image on the graphical user interface on the display device; and
displaying an indication on the graphical user interface on the display device of the image parameter feature scores that are non-conforming with a corresponding standard score.
76. A system for allowing for visual assessment of medical images, the system comprising:
a memory, the memory comprising a database;
a display device;
a user input device;
a processor in communication with the memory, the display device, and the user input device, the processor being configured to:
generate a graphical user interface including a plurality of filter fields;
output the graphical user interface on the display device for viewing by a user;
receive at the user input device at least one filter input from the user;
access the database to retrieve a study that satisfies the at least one filter input, the study including several images and a plurality of image parameter feature scores for each image of the selected study; output thumbnails of the images of the selected study on the graphical user interface on the display device;
receive at the user input device an image selection input from the user indicating the selected image by the user;
display a large version of the selected image and the image parameter feature scores that correspond to the selected image on the graphical user interface on the display device; and display an indication on the graphical user interface on the display device of the image parameter feature scores that are non-conforming with a corresponding standard score.
77. A computer-implemented method for allowing for visual assessment of medical images, wherein the method is implemented by a processor and the method comprises:
generating a graphical user interface including a plurality of filter fields; outputting the graphical user interface on a display device for viewing by a user;
receiving at least one filter input from the user;
accessing a database to retrieve images and a plurality of image parameter feature scores for each image, where the retrieved images satisfy the at least one filter input;
displaying a given icon for a given image parameter feature that corresponds to the image parameter feature score on the graphical user interface on the display device;
comparing the given image parameter feature score for the retrieved images to a threshold associated with the given image parameter feature to determine a given number of the retrieved images that satisfy the threshold; displaying the number of retrieved images on the graphical user interface on the display device;
displaying the percentage of retrieved images whose image parameter feature scores exceed the threshold on the graphical user interface on the display device; and
outputting the given number with the given icon on the graphical user interface on the display device.
78. The method of claim 77, further comprising: repeating the displaying, comparing and outputting steps for other image parameter features.
79. The method of claim 77 or 78, wherein the method further comprises: receiving a user input from the user of a selected image parameter; accessing the database to retrieve a plurality of medical images that satisfy the threshold for the image parameter, the medical images being grouped into studies;
outputting thumbnails of the studies on the graphical user interface on the display device;
receiving a study input indicating the study selected by the user;
accessing the database to retrieve image parameter feature scores and an overall image quality score for each image of the selected study; and
displaying images of the selected study along with the image parameter feature scores and the overall image quality score for each image of the study, and an overall study quality score for the selected study on the graphical user interface on the display device.
80. A system for allowing for visual assessment of medical images, the system comprising:
a memory, the memory comprising a database;
a display device;
a user input device;
a processor in communication with the memory, the display device, and the user input device, the processor being configured to:
generate a graphical user interface including a plurality of filter fields;
output the graphical user interface on the display device for viewing by a user;
receive at the user input device at least one filter input from the user;
access the database to retrieve images and a plurality of image parameter feature scores for each image, where the retrieved images satisfy the at least one filter input;
display a given icon for a given image parameter feature that corresponds to the image parameter feature score on the graphical user interface on the display device; compare the given image parameter feature score for the retrieved images to a threshold associated with the given image parameter feature to determine a given number of the retrieved images that satisfy the threshold;
display the number of retrieved images on the graphical user interface of the display device;
display the percentage of retrieved images whose image parameter feature scores exceed the threshold on the graphical user interface of the display device; and
output the given number with the given icon the graphical user interface of the display device.
81 . The system of claim 80, wherein the processor is further configured to repeat the displaying, comparing and outputting steps for other image parameter features.
82. The system of claim 80 or 81 , wherein the processor is further configured to:
receive at the user input device a user input from the user of a selected image parameter;
access the database to retrieve a plurality of medical images that satisfy the threshold for the image parameter, the medical images being grouped into studies;
output thumbnails of the studies on the graphical user interface on the display device;
receive at the user input device a study input indicating the study selected by the user;
access the database to retrieve image parameter feature scores and an overall image quality score for each image of the selected study; and
display on the graphical user interface of the display device images of the selected study along with the image parameter feature scores and the overall image quality score for each image of the study, and an overall study quality score for the selected study.
83. A method for determining a breast density classification from a digital mammogram, the method comprising:
receiving an input image corresponding to the digital mammogram; preprocessing the input image to obtain a preprocessed image;
performing measurements on the preprocessed image to obtain values for features;
providing the input image to a first convolutional layer of a first Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) that generates a percent breast density value;
providing the percent breast density value and values of the features to an input layer that is before a final fully connected layer of a second CNN for generating a breast density classification.
84. The method of claim 83, wherein the values for the features are determined from of at least one of a dispersion pattern of dense breast tissue in the input image, texture indicators for the input image, pattern indicators for the input image and pixel intensities for the input image.
85. The method of claim 83, wherein the method comprises determining mean blob size, compactness, and a smallest convex hull that encompasses all dense tissue in the digital mammogram as the values of the features that are provided to the input layer.
86. A system for determining a breast density value classification from a mammogram image, wherein the system comprises:
a memory unit; and
a processing unit coupled to the memory unit, the processor unit being configured to perform the method defined according to any one of claims 83 to 85.
</claims>
</document>
