<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JUMIO
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOCHRIESER, REINHARD
BALOGH, ATTILA
ROGOJANU, RADU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68290323
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING FOR DOCUMENT AUTHENTICATION
</title>

<abstract>
Computer systems and methods are provided for using a machine learning system to analyze authentication information. First authentication information for a first transaction includes at least a first image that corresponds to a first identification document is received. First validation information that corresponds to a first validation fault is received from a validation system. Data storage of a machine learning system stores the first validation information. Second authentication information for a second transaction includes a second image that corresponds to a second image is received. The machine learning system determines a first validation value that corresponds to a probability that the second image includes the first validation fault. The first validation value is used to determine whether fault review criteria are met. In accordance with a determination that the fault review criteria are met, the second image is transmitted to the validation system.
</abstract>

<claims>
WO 2019/231698 AMENDED CLAIMS PCT/US2019/032597 received by the International Bureau on 10 January 2020 (10.01.2020)
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising:
at a server system including one or more processors and memory storing one or more programs for execution by the one or more processors:
receiving, over a network from a user device remote from the server system, a first authentication request to authenticate an identity of a user, wherein the first authentication request includes at least a first image that corresponds to a first identification document; receiving, from a validation system, a first validation information indicating that a first validation fault was detected in the first image;
training a machine learning system using the first validation information to detect the first validation fault;
receiving a second authentication request to authenticate an identity of a user, wherein the second authentication request includes a second image that corresponds to a second identification document;
determining, using the machine learning system, a confidence value that indicates a probability that the second image includes the first validation fault;
determining whether the confidence value exceeds a threshold uncertainty value; and in accordance with a determination that the confidence value exceeds the threshold uncertainty value, transmitting, to the validation sy stem, the second image
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first validation information indicates a location in the first image that corresponds to the first validation fault
3. The method of any of claims 1-2, wherein:
in accordance with a determination that the confidence value does not exceed the threshold uncertainty value, transmitting the second authentication request to a remote device.
4. The method of claim 1, including:
receiving the first validation information indicating that the first validation fault was detected in the first image; and
storing, by data storage of the machine learning sy stem, the first validation information indicating that the first validation fault was detected in the first image.
39
5. The method of any of claims 1-4, including:
determining, using the machine learning system, a second validation value that corresponds to a probability that the second image of the second identification document includes a second validation fault, distinct from the first validation fault.
6. The method of claim 5, including:
analyzing, using the machine learning system, a set of incoming authentication requests;
determining, by the machine learning system, a subset of the set of incoming authentication requests that correspond to invalid authentication request activity;
wherein the second validation fault is an invalidity characteristic of the subset of the set of incoming authentication requests.
7. A computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, which when executed, cause a server system to:
receive, over a network from a user device remote from the server system, a first authentication request to authenticate an identity of a user, wherein the first authentication request includes at least a first image that corresponds to a first identification document; receive, from a validation system, a first validation information indicating that a first validation fault was detected in the first image;
training a machine learning system, using the first validation information, to detect the first validation fault,
receive a second authentication request to authenticate an identity of a user, wherein the second authentication request includes a second image that corresponds to a second identification document;
determine, using the machine learning system, a confidence value that indicates a probability that the second image includes the first validation fault;
determine whether the confidence value exceeds a threshold uncertainty value;
in accordance with a determination that the confidence value exceeds the threshold uncertainty value, transmitting, to the validation system, the second image.
8. The computer readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein the first validation information indicates a location in the first image that corresponds to the first validation fault.
40
9. The computer readable storage medium of any of claims 7-8, wherein the one or more programs include instructions that cause the server system to, in accordance with a determination that confidence value does not exceed the threshold uncertainty value, transmit the second authentication request to a remote device.
10. The computer readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein the one or more programs include instructions that cause the server system to:
receive the first validation information indicating that the first validation fault was detected in the first image; and
store, by data storage of the machine learning system, the first validation information indicating that the first validation fault was detected in the first image.
11. The computer readable storage medium of any of claims 7-10, wherein the one or more programs include instructions that cause the server system to:
determine, using the machine learning system, a second validation value that corresponds to a probability that the second image of the second identification document includes a second validation fault, distinct from the first validation fault.
12. The computer readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the one or more programs include instructions that cause the server system to:
analyze, using the machine learning system, a set of incoming authentication requests; determine, by the machine learning system, a subset of the set of incoming
authentication requests that correspond to invalid authentication request activity;
wherein the second validation fault is an invalidity characteristic of the subset of the set of incoming authentication requests.
13. A server system, comprising:
one or more processors;
memory; and
one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory' and are configured for execution by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including instructions for: receiving, over a network from a user device remote from the server system, a first authentication request to authenticate an identity of a user, wherein the first authentication request includes at least a first image that corresponds to a first identification document; receiving, from a validation system, first validation information that indicating a first validation fault was detected in the first image;
training a machine learning system using the first validation information to detect the first validation fault;
receiving a second authentication request to authenticate an identity of a user, wherein the second authentication request includes a second image that corresponds to a second identification document;
determining, using the machine learning system, a confidence value that indicates a probability that the second image includes the first validation fault,
determining whether the confidence value exceeds a threshold uncertainty value; in accordance with a determination that the confidence value exceeds the threshold uncertainty value, transmitting, to the validation system, the second image.
14. The server system of claim 13, wherein the first validation information indicates a location in the first image that corresponds to the first validation fault
15. The server system of any of claims 13-14, wherein the one or more programs include instructions for, in accordance with a determination that the confidence value does not exceed the threshold uncertainty value, transmitting the second authentication request to a remote device.
16. The server system of claim 13, wherein the one or more programs including instructions for:
receiving the first validation information indicating that the first validation fault was detected in the first image; and
storing, by data storage of the machine learning system, the first validation information indicating that the first validation fault was detected in the first image.
17. The server system of any of claims 13-16, wherein the one or more programs including instructions for: determining, using the machine learning system, a second validation value that corresponds to a probability that the second image of the second identification document includes a second validation fault, distinct from the first validation fault.
18. The server system of claim 17, wherein the one or more programs including instructions for:
analyzing, using the machine learning system, a set of incoming authentication requests;
determining, by the machine learning system, a subset of the set of incoming authentication requests that correspond to invalid authentication request activity;
wherein the second validation fault is an invalidity characteristic of the subset of the set of incoming authentication requests.
43
</claims>
</document>
