<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06K9/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QEEXO COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHATT, RAJEN
CHEN, YANFEI
HARRISON, CHRISTOPHER
LEE, SANG WON
SMEIR, Hasan.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73047420
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM TO PREVENT IDENTITY THEFT FOR FINGERPRINT RECOGNITION ENABLED TOUCH SCREEN DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure facilitates fingerprint recognition, user authentication, and prevention of loss of control of personal information and identity theft. The disclosure also facilitates identifying spoofed fingerprint authentication attempts, and/or securing user touch sensitive devices against spoofed fingerprint authentication attempts.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method, comprising:
analyzing, by a system comprising a processor, characteristics of touch surface data associated with a touch sensitive surface that is associated with a device;
based at least in part on at least one result of the analyzing, determining, by the system, a classification of a touch event for an object with respect to the touch sensitive surface, wherein the classification of the touch event is a fingerprint; and
determining, by the system, whether to reject the fingerprint or process the fingerprint based at least in part on the classification, wherein it is determined that the touch event is to be rejected in response to the classification being determined to be an unauthorized fingerprint comprising touch surface data associated with a spoofed fingerprint attempt, and wherein it is determined that the touch event is to be processed in response to the
classification being determined to be an authorized fingerprint.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
processing, by the system, the touch event as the authorized fingerprint; and determining, by the system, whether to attempt to authenticate a user associated with the authorized fingerprint, by comparing the authorized fingerprint to data associated with an authenticated user comprising at least one fingerprint previously provided by the
authenticated user, whether to attempt to provide a further authentication challenge to the user, or whether to determine that the authorized fingerprint constitutes an unauthorized access of the device by the user, based at least in part on the processing.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising:
authenticating, by the system, the user, based at least in part on the classification being determined to be an authorized fingerprint and the comparing the authorized fingerprint to the data associated with the authenticated user.
4. The method of claim 2 or 3, further comprising:
providing, by the system, the further authentication challenge to the user based on a comparison of the data associated with the touch sensitive surface and at least one other sensor associated with the touch sensitive device with the data associated with the authenticated user stored on the device.
5. The method of any of claims 2-4, further comprising:
authenticating, by the system, the user, based on a determination that the further authentication challenge is satisfied.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising:
determining, by the system, that the authorized fingerprint constitutes the unauthorized access of the device by the user based at least in part on the comparing the authorized fingerprint to the data associated with the authenticated user.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising:
locking, by the system, the device based on the determining that the authorized fingerprint constitutes the unauthorized access of the device.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
rejecting, by the system, the touch event based at least in part on the classification being determined to be the unauthorized fingerprint comprising the touch surface data associated with the spoofed fingerprint attempt; and
locking, by the system, the device in response to rejecting the touch event.
9. The method of any of claims 1-8, wherein the determining the classification comprises comparing, by the system, the data associated with the touch sensitive surface to stored data associated with at least the authorized fingerprint, wherein the stored data comprises a model of the authorized fingerprint and the unauthorized fingerprint comprising the touch surface data associated with a set of spoofed fingerprint attempts, wherein the model is developed according to a machine learning algorithm.
10. A system associated with a touch sensitive device, comprising:
a memory that stores executable components; and
a processor, operatively coupled to the memory, that executes the executable components, the executable components comprising: an analysis component configured to analyze characteristics of touch surface data associated with a touch sensitive surface associated with the system;
a classification component configured to determine a classification of a touch event for an object with respect to the touch sensitive surface, wherein the classification of the touch event is a fingerprint; and
an authorization component configured to determine whether to reject the fingerprint or process the fingerprint based at least in part on the classification, wherein it is determined that the touch event is to be rejected in response to the classification being determined to be an unauthorized fingerprint comprising touch surface data associated with a spoofed fingerprint attempt, and wherein it is determined that the touch event is to be processed in response to the classification being determined to be an authorized fingerprint.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the authorization component is further configured to process the touch event as the authorized fingerprint, configured to determine whether to attempt to authenticate a user associated with the authorized fingerprint, by comparing the authorized fingerprint to data associated with an authenticated user comprising at least one fingerprint previously provided by the authenticated user, or whether to attempt to provide a further authentication challenge to the user, and configured to determine whether the authorized fingerprint constitutes an unauthorized access of the device by the user, based at least in part on processing the touch event as the authorized fingerprint.
12. The system of claim 11, the executable components further comprising:
an authentication component configured to authenticate the user, based at least in part on the classification being determined to be an authorized fingerprint and the comparing the authorized fingerprint to the data associated with the authenticated user.
13. The system of claim 11 or 12, wherein the authentication component is further configured to provide the further authentication challenge to the user based on a comparison of the data associated with the touch sensitive surface and at least one other sensor associated with the touch sensitive device with the data associated with the authenticated user stored on the touch sensitive device.
14. The system of any of claims 11-13, wherein the authentication component is further configured to authenticate the user, based on a determination that the further authentication challenge is satisfied.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the authorization component is further configured to determine that the authorized fingerprint constitutes the unauthorized access of the device by the user based at least in part on the comparing the authorized fingerprint to the data associated with an authenticated user.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the authorization component is further configured to lock the device based on the determining that the authorized fingerprint constitutes the unauthorized access of the touch sensitive device.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein the authorization component is further configured to reject the touch event based at least in part on the classification being determined to be the unauthorized fingerprint comprising the touch surface data associated with the spoofed fingerprint attempt, and further configured to lock the touch sensitive device in response to rejecting the touch event.
18. The system of any of claims 10-17, wherein the classification component is further configured to compare the data associated with the touch sensitive surface to stored data associated with at least the authorized fingerprint, wherein the stored data comprises a model of the authorized fingerprint and the unauthorized fingerprint comprising the touch surface data associated with a set of spoofed fingerprint attempts, wherein the model is developed according to a machine learning algorithm.
19. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising:
analyzing, by a system comprising the processor, characteristics of touch surface data associated with a touch sensitive surface that is associated with a device;
based at least in part on at least one result of the analyzing, determining, by the system, a classification of a touch event for an object with respect to the touch sensitive surface, wherein the classification of the touch event is a fingerprint; and
determining, by the system, whether to reject the fingerprint or process the fingerprint based at least in part on the classification, wherein it is determined that the touch event is to be rejected in response to the classification being determined to be an unauthorized fingerprint comprising touch surface data associated with a spoofed fingerprint attempt, and wherein it is determined that the touch event is to be processed in response to the
classification being determined to be an authorized fingerprint.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, further comprising executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising:
processing, by the system, the touch event as the authorized fingerprint; and determining, by the system, whether to attempt to authenticate a user associated with the authorized fingerprint, by comparing the authorized fingerprint to data associated with an authenticated user comprising at least one fingerprint previously provided by the
authenticated user, whether to attempt to provide a further authentication challenge to the user, or whether to determine that the authorized fingerprint constitutes an unauthorized access of the device by the user, based at least in part on the processing.
21. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 20, further comprising executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising:
authenticating, by the system, the user, based at least in part on the classification being determined to be an authorized fingerprint and the comparing the authorized fingerprint to the data associated with the authenticated user.
22. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 20 or 21, further comprising executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising:
providing, by the system, the further authentication challenge to the user based on a comparison of the data associated with the touch sensitive surface and at least one other sensor associated with the touch sensitive device with the data associated with the authenticated user stored on the device.
23. The machine-readable storage medium of any of claims 20-22, further comprising executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: authenticating, by the system, the user, based on a determination that the further authentication challenge is satisfied.
24. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 20, further comprising executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising:
determining, by the system, that the authorized fingerprint constitutes the unauthorized access of the device by the user based at least in part on the comparing the authorized fingerprint to the data associated with the authenticated user.
25. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 24, further comprising executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising:
locking, by the system, the device based on the determining that the authorized fingerprint constitutes the unauthorized access of the device.
26. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, further comprising executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising:
rejecting, by the system, the touch event based at least in part on the classification being determined to be the unauthorized fingerprint comprising the touch surface data associated with the spoofed fingerprint attempt; and
locking the device in response to rejecting the touch event.
27. The machine-readable storage medium of any of claims 19-26, wherein the determining the classification comprises comparing, by the system, the data associated with the touch sensitive surface to stored data associated with at least the authorized fingerprint, wherein the stored data comprises a model of the authorized fingerprint and the unauthorized fingerprint comprising the touch surface data associated with a set of spoofed fingerprint attempts, wherein the model is developed according to a machine learning algorithm.
</claims>
</document>
