<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W28/02,H04W74/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HEO, YOUN HYOUNG
LEE ANTHONY
LIM, SEAU S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70802958
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONFIGURED GRANT IMPROVEMENT FOR NEW RADIO (NR) UNLICENSED
</title>

<abstract>
Some embodiments of this disclosure include systems, apparatuses, methods, and computer-readable media for use in a wireless network for improving configured grant for new radio (NR) unlicensed. For example, some embodiments are directed to an electronic device including radio front end circuitry and processor circuitry. The processor circuitry can be configured to receive, using the radio front end circuitry, a message from a base station and, based on the received message, determine whether to use a lowest Channel Access Priority Class (CAPC) or a highest CAPC of one or more Media Access Control (MAC) Service Data Units (SDUs) that are multiplexed in one or more MAC Protocol Data Units (PDUs) for an uplink (UL) transmission. The processor circuitry transmits, using the radio front end circuitry, the MAC PDU to the base station.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A user equipment (UE), comprising:
radio front end circuitry; and
processor circuitry, coupled to the radio front end circuitry, and configured to: receive, using the radio front end circuitry, a message from a base station; based on the received message, determine whether to use a lowest Channel Access Priority Class (CAPC) or a highest CAPC;
in response to the received message indicating to use the lowest CAPC, select a CAPC based on the lowest CAPC of one or more Media Access Control (MAC) Service Data Units (SDUs) that are multiplexed in one or more MAC Protocol Data Units (PDUs) for an uplink (UL) transmission;
in response to the received message indicating to use the highest CAPC, select the CAPC based on the highest CAPC of the one or more MAC SDUs that are multiplexed in the MAC PDU for the UL transmission; and
transmit, using the radio front end circuitry, the MAC PDU to the base station.
2. The UE of claim 1, wherein the message indicates to use the lowest CAPC in response to an access point (AP) associated with a wireless network being detected, wherein the AP is associated with the UE or the base station.
3. The UE of claim 1, wherein the message indicates to use the highest CAPC in response to an access point (AP) associated with a wireless network not being detected, wherein the AP is associated with the UE or the base station.
4. The UE of claim 1, wherein the UL transmission corresponds to at least one of a
configured grant or a dynamic grant.
5. The UE of claim 4, wherein the MAC PDU comprises a first MAC PDU and a second MAC PDU and the processor circuitry is configured to:
multiplex control signaling into the first MAC PDU; multiplex data signaling into the second MAC PDU;
transmit the first MAC PDU using the dynamic grant; and
transmit the second MAC PDU sing the configured grant.
6. The UE of claim 5, wherein the control signaling comprises at least one of a MAC control element (CE), a Signaling Radio Bearer (SRB), or a Data Radio Bearer (DRB) with the highest CACP.
7. The UE of claim 5, wherein the data signaling comprises a Data Radio Bearer (DRB) not having the highest CACP.
8. The UE of claim 1, wherein the processor circuitry is configured to start or restart a
configured grant timer and a configured grant retransmission timer at a same time.
9. The UE of claim 9, wherein the processor circuitry is configured to restart the configured grant timer when the configured grant timer expires and run the configured grant retransmission timer for a predefined number of configured grant retransmissions.
10. A method, comprising:
receiving, at a user equipment (UE), a message from a base station; based on the received message, determining whether to use a lowest Channel Access Priority Class (CAPC) or a highest CAPC;
in response to the received message indicating to use the lowest CAPC, selecting a CAPC based on the lowest CAPC of one or more Media Access Control (MAC) Service Data Units (SDUs) that are multiplexed in one or more MAC Protocol Data Units (PDUs) for an uplink (UL) transmission;
in response to the received message indicating to use the highest CAPC, selecting the CAPC based on the highest CAPC of the one or more MAC SDUs that are
multiplexed in the MAC PDU for the UL transmission; and
transmitting the MAC PDU to the base station. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the message indicates to use the lowest CAPC in response to an access point (AP) associated with a wireless network being detected, wherein the AP is associated with the UE or the base station.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the message indicates to use the highest CAPC in
response to an access point (AP) associated with a wireless network not being detected, wherein the AP is associated with the UE or the base station.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the UL transmission corresponds to at least one of a configured grant or a dynamic grant.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the MAC PDU comprises a first MAC PDU and a second MAC PDU and the method further comprises:
multiplexing control signaling into the first MAC PDU;
multiplexing data signaling into the second MAC PDU;
transmitting the first MAC PDU using the dynamic grant; and
transmitting the second MAC PDU sing the configured grant.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the control signaling comprises at least one of a MAC control element (CE), a Signaling Radio Bearer (SRB), or a Data Radio Bearer (DRB) with the highest CACP and wherein the data signaling comprises a Data Radio Bearer (DRB) not having the highest CACP.
16. The method of claim 10, further comprising:
starting or restarting a configured grant timer and a configured grant retransmission timer at a same time.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
restarting the configured grant timer when the configured grant timer expires; and running the configured grant retransmission timer for a predefined number of configured grant retransmissions. 18. A base station, comprising:
radio front end circuitry; and
processor circuitry, coupled to the radio front end circuitry, and configured to: determine whether an access point (AP) associated with a wireless network is detected;
generate a message for a user equipment (UE), wherein the message comprises a parameter set to a lowest Channel Access Priority Class (CAPC) in response to detecting the AP or is set to a highest CAPC in response to not detecting the AP; and transmit, using the radio front end circuitry, the message to the UE.
19. The base station of claim 1, wherein the processor circuitry is configured to transmit the message using an uplink (UL) grant procedure.
20. The base station of claim 1, wherein the message comprises an information element included in an RRCReconfiguraiton message.
</claims>
</document>
