<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M16/00,G16H40/67
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RESMED
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU, NATHAN ZERSEE
DASSOS, PETER JAMES
DE SOUZA, SAKEENA
PEAKE, GREGORY ROBERT
WEALE, Andrew
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73245370
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TWO-WAY COMMUNICATION IN A MEDICAL DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A system for providing continuous positive air pressure therapy is provided. The system includes a flow generator, a sensor, and a computing device. The computing device is configured to control operation of the flow generator based on sensor data. The computing device is further configured to display, on a display device, one or more questions relating to demographic and/or subjective feedback; responsive to displaying the one or more questions, receive one or more inputs indicating answers to the one or more questions; transmit the answers to a remote processing system; receive, from the remote processing system, settings determined based on the transmitted answers; and adjust control settings of the system based on the received settings.
</abstract>

<claims>
6 CLAIMS
1. A respiratory pressure therapy system for providing continuous positive air pressure (CPAP) to a patient, the system comprising:
a flow generator configured to generate supply of breathable gas for delivery to the patient, wherein the breathable gas is output from the flow generator at a pressure level that is above atmospheric pressure;
at least one sensor that is configured to measure a physical quantity while the breathable gas is supplied to the patient;
a computing device including memory and at least one hardware processor, the computing device configured to:
receive, from the at least one sensor, sensor data that is based on measured physical property of the supply of breathable gas;
control, based on the received sensor data, the flow generator to adjust a property of the supply of breathable gas that is delivered to the patient;
display, on a display device, one or more questions relating to demographic and/or subjective feedback; responsive to displaying the one or more questions, receive one or more inputs indicating answers to the one or more questions; transmit the answers to a remote processing system; receive, from the remote processing system, settings for the respiratory pressure therapy system determined based on the transmitted answers; and adjust, based on the received settings, control settings of the respiratory pressure therapy system.
2. The respiratory pressure therapy system of claim 1 , wherein the remote processing system is an on-demand cloud computing platform configured to perform machine learning using data received from a plurality of patients. 3. The respiratory pressure therapy system of claims 1 or 2, wherein the questions are pre-stored in the memory.
4. The respiratory pressure therapy system of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the one or more questions are received from the remote processing system.
5. The respiratory pressure therapy system of any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising a patient interface configured to engage with at least one airway of the patient and supply breathable gas to the patient.
6. The respiratory pressure therapy system of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the questions include at least one question relating to demographic information about the patient and at least one question relating to subjective feedback from the patient about using the respiratory pressure therapy system.
7. The respiratory pressure therapy system of any one of claims 1 to 6, further comprising the remote processing system and the remote processing system is configured to determine tailored coaching programs for the patient based on the answers transmitted to the remote processing system.
8. The respiratory pressure therapy system of any one of claims 1 to 6 further comprising the remote processing system and the remote processing system is configured to determine personalized therapy for the patient based on the answers transmitted to the remote processing system.
9. The respiratory pressure therapy system of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the computing device is further configured to perform setup operations, and the one or more questions are displayed after the setup and after a predetermined condition is satisfied. 10. The respiratory pressure therapy system of claim 9, wherein the predetermined condition includes a predetermined amount of time passing after setup.
11. The respiratory pressure therapy system of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the settings for the respiratory pressure therapy system and/or tailored coaching programs are received by an application, website, email, and/or a mobile device associated with the patient.
12. Apparatus for treating a respiratory disorder in a patient, the apparatus comprising:
a display device; a pressure generator configured to generate a flow of air for treating the respiratory disorder; a transducer configured to generate a flow signal representing a property of the flow of air; a controller, coupled to the display, the pressure generator, and the transducer, the controller configured to: receive the flow signal from the transducer; based on the received flow signal, control the pressure generator to adjust a property of the flow of air; display, to the display device, a request for demographic and/or subjective feedback;
responsive to the request, receive one or more inputs representing demographic and/or subjective feedback;
transmit demographic and/or subjective feedback data determined based on the received one or more inputs to a remote processing system; receive, from the remote processing system, analysis results determined based on the transmitted demographic and/or subjective feedback data; and adjust, based on the received analysis results, control settings of the apparatus.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the controller, the display, and the pressure generator are commonly housed.
14. The apparatus of claims 12 or 13, wherein the adjusted control settings include a treatment pressure provided in a patient mask coupled to the pressure generator.
15. The apparatus of any one of claims 12 to 14, wherein the controller is configured to transmit, with the demographic and/or subjective feedback data, operational data of the apparatus, and the analysis results are determined based on the demographic and/or subjective feedback data and the operational data of the apparatus.
16. The apparatus of any one of claims 12 to 15, wherein the analysis results include tailored coaching program for the patient.
17. The apparatus of any one of claims 12 to 16, wherein the analysis results include a personalized therapy for the patient.
18. A method of operating a respiratory treatment apparatus for generating a flow of air in order to treat a respiratory disorder, the method comprising:
measuring a property of the flow of air, using a transducer; calculating, in a controller and based on the measured property, a result comprising at least one of: a respiratory event, a cardio-respiratory characteristic of a patient, and a physiological state of the patient;
controlling, in the controller, an adjustment to a property of the flow of air based on the result;
displaying one or more questions relating to demographic and/or subjective feedback;
responsive to displaying the one or more questions, receiving, in the controller, one or more inputs indicating answers to the one or more questions;
transmitting the answers to a remote processing system; and receiving, from the remote processing system, settings for operating the respiratory treatment apparatus and/or tailored coaching programs for the patient based on the answers transmitted to the remote processing system.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising adjusting, based on the received settings, control settings of the respiratory treatment apparatus.
20. The method of claim 18 or 19, wherein the settings for operating the respiratory treatment apparatus provide personalized therapy for the patient determined based on the answers transmitted to the remote processing system and control settings of the respiratory treatment apparatus at a time the inputs indicating answers are received.
21. The method of any one of claims 18 to 20, wherein the questions are displayed on a display of the respiratory treatment apparatus.
22. The method of any one of claims 18 to 20, wherein the questions are displayed on a mobile device configured to execute an application for controlling the respiratory treatment apparatus. 23. The method of any one of claims 18 to 22, wherein the questions are displayed after a predetermined condition is satisfied.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the predetermined condition includes a predetermined time period after the respiratory treatment apparatus is setup and/or a predetermined time period that the respiratory treatment apparatus has been operated by the patient.
25. A processing system comprising:
memory storing a plurality of demographic questions and a plurality of objective questions;
a computing system including at least one hardware processor coupled to the memory, the computing system configured to:
transmit, to a medical device associated with a patient, at least one demographic question and at least one objective question stored in the memory;
receive, from the medical device, answers to the at least one demographic question and at least one objective question transmitted to the medical device;
transmit, to a mobile device configured to execute an application for communicating with the medical device, a notification indicating that unanswered questions are available;
receive, from the mobile device, request for the questions; responsive to the request, transmit, to the mobile device, at least one demographic question and at least one objective question stored in the memory;
receive, from the mobile device, answers to the at least one demographic question and at least one objective question transmitted to the mobile device; and perform advanced analytics to determine, based on (1) the answers received from the medical device and the mobile device and (2) answers received from a plurality of other medical devices, a tailored coaching program for the patient and personalised therapy using the medical device.
26. The processing system of claim 25, wherein the medical device is a respiratory treatment apparatus.
27. The processing system of claim 25 or 26, wherein the computing system is further configured to receive, from the medical device, answers to questions pre-stored on the medical device and answered using the medical device.
28. The processing system of any one of claims 25 to 27, wherein the questions are transmitted to the mobile device and/or the medical device after a predetermined condition is satisfied.
29. The processing system of claim 28, wherein the predetermined condition is a predetermined time period after the medical device is setup and/or a predetermined time period that the medical device has been operated by the patient.
</claims>
</document>
