<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B41/00,E21B47/06,E21B49/08,E21B49/10,G01J3/02,G01V8/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SCHLUMBERGER CANADA
SCHLUMBERGER TECHNOLOGY
SERVICES PETROLIERS SCHLUMBERGER
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOLLA, SHAHNAWAZ
MOSTOWFI, FARSHID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71101692
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETERMINING RESERVOIR FLUID PROPERTIES FROM DOWNHOLE FLUID ANALYSIS DATA USING MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
Methods for determining in situ the value of a formation fluid parameter using a downhole fluid analysis (DFA) tool. The methods utilize advanced statistical learning tools to build a predictive model to estimate a fluid property given a set of input parameters. In one embodiment the fluid saturation pressure parameter is determined by using the DFA tool to obtain the fluid and to obtain weight fractions of at least C 1 , C 6+ , and CO 2 of the fluid. The weight fractions and a reservoir temperature are input into a trained statistical learning machine to obtain a determination of the saturation pressure of the fluid.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining in situ a value of a parameter of a reservoir fluid taken from a formation traversed by a borehole, comprising:
drawing the fluid into a tool located in the borehole, said tool having an optical module including a spectrometer;
shining light through the fluid and sensing with the spectrometer a plurality of resulting signals;
applying indications of the resulting signals as inputs to a trained statistical learning machine; and
taking the output of the trained statistical learning machine as a determination of the value of the parameter while the tool is in the borehole.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein:
the parameter is a saturation pressure of the reservoir fluid at downhole conditions.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein:
said indications of the resulting signals are obtained by processing the resulting signals to obtain weight fractions of at least Ci , ( V , CO 2 , wherein said weight fractions and a reservoir temperature are said inputs to said trained statistical learning machine.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein:
said statistical learning machine is a support vector machine using a regression model.
5. The method according to claim 3, wherein:
said drawing the fluid is done at a first drawdown pressure, and said method further comprises
drawing additional fluid into the tool;
shining light through the additional fluid and sensing with the spectrometer a plurality of resulting signals related to the additional fluid; applying indications of the resulting signals related to the additional fluid as inputs to a trained statistical learning machine;
taking the output of the trained statistical learning machine as a determination of the value of the saturation pressure of the additional fluid; and
modifying said first drawdown pressure to a second drawdown pressure different than said first drawdown pressure based on the relative values obtained for the saturation pressure of the fluid and the additional fluid.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein:
said modifying comprises increasing the drawdown pressure such that the second drawdown pressure is greater than said first drawdown pressure when the saturation pressure of the fluid and the additional fluid is the same.
7. The method according to claim 5, wherein:
said modifying comprises decreasing the drawdown pressure such that the second drawdown pressure is less than said first drawdown pressure when the saturation pressure of the fluid and the additional fluid has changed.
8. The method according to claim 2, wherein:
said indications of the resulting signals are optical density indications of a plurality of channels of a spectrometer, wherein said optical density indications and a reservoir temperature are said inputs to said trained statistical learning machine.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein:
said statistical learning machine is a support vector machine using a regression model.
10. The method according to claim 8, wherein:
said drawing the fluid is done at a first drawdown pressure, and said method further comprises
drawing additional fluid into the tool; shining light through the additional fluid and sensing with the spectrometer a plurality of resulting signals related to the additional fluid;
applying indications of the resulting signals related to the additional fluid as inputs to a trained statistical learning machine;
taking the output of the trained statistical learning machine as a determination of the value of the saturation pressure of the additional fluid; and
modifying said first drawdown pressure to a second drawdown pressure different than said first drawdown pressure based on the relative values obtained for the saturation pressure of the fluid and the additional fluid.
11. The method according to claim 8, wherein:
said modifying comprises increasing the drawdown pressure such that the second drawdown pressure is greater than said first drawdown pressure when the saturation pressure of the fluid and the additional fluid is the same.
12. The method according to claim 8, wherein:
said modifying comprises decreasing the drawdown pressure such that the second drawdown pressure is less than said first drawdown pressure when the saturation pressure of the fluid and the additional fluid has changed.
13. A method, comprising:
obtaining samples of reservoir fluid from one or more formations at measured formation temperatures;
analyzing the saturation pressures of the samples in a laboratory;
analyzing the samples for optical density as a function of wave-length to obtain indicative information of the different makeups of the samples;
using the measured formation temperatures, saturation pressures and indicative information as at least training data to train a statistical learning machine;
drawing new fluid into a tool located in a borehole, said tool having an optical module including a spectrometer, and said new fluid taken from a downhole formation at a measured downhole formation temperature; shining light through the fluid and sensing with the spectrometer a plurality of resulting signals;
applying indications of the resulting signals and said measured downhole formation temperature as inputs to the trained statistical learning machine; and
taking the output of the trained statistical learning machine as a determination of a saturation pressure of the new fluid.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein:
said statistical learning machine is a support vector machine using a regression model.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein:
said indications of the resulting signals are obtained by processing the resulting signals to obtain weight fractions of at least Ci , ( V , CO 2 , wherein said weight fractions are said inputs to said trained statistical learning machine.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein:
said indications of the resulting signals are optical density indications of a plurality of channels of a spectrometer, wherein said optical density indications are said inputs to said trained statistical learning machine.
17. The method according to claim 13, wherein:
said drawing the new fluid is done at a first drawdown pressure, and said method further comprises
drawing additional fluid into the tool;
shining light through the additional fluid and sensing with the spectrometer a plurality of resulting signals related to the additional fluid;
applying indications of the resulting signals related to the additional fluid as inputs to a trained statistical learning machine;
taking the output of the trained statistical learning machine as a determination of the value of the saturation pressure of the additional fluid; and modifying said first drawdown pressure to a second drawdown pressure different than said first drawdown pressure based on the relative values obtained for the saturation pressure of the fluid and the additional fluid.
18. The method according to claim 17, wherein:
said modifying comprises increasing the drawdown pressure such that the second drawdown pressure is greater than said first drawdown pressure when the saturation pressure of the fluid and the additional fluid is the same.
19. The method according to claim 17, wherein:
said modifying comprises decreasing the drawdown pressure such that the second drawdown pressure is less than said first drawdown pressure when the saturation pressure of the fluid and the additional fluid has changed.
</claims>
</document>
