<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W36/00,H04W52/02,H04W84/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI QIMING
TANG YANG
CUI JIE
TIAN, SHUANG
ZHOU YUHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70465278
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USER EQUIPMENT (UE) MEASUREMENT CAPABILITY IN HIGH SPEED SCENARIOS
</title>

<abstract>
In a communication system comprising user equipment (UE) and a radio access network (RAN) comprising a plurality of cells is configured for receiving, by the UE, a radio resource control (RRC) information element (IE) indicating a high speed scenario (HST); and monitoring, by the UE in response to receiving the RRC IE indicating HST, a first number of frequency carriers that is reduced relative to a second number of frequency carriers monitored by the UE during a non-HST.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. In a communication system comprising user equipment (UE) and a radio access network (RAN) comprising a plurality of cells, a method comprising:
receiving, by the UE, a radio resource control (RRC) information element (IE) indicating a high speed scenario (HST); and
monitoring, by the UE in response to receiving the RRC IE indicating HST, a first number of frequency carriers that is reduced relative to a second number of frequency carriers monitored by the UE during a non-HST.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
configuring the UE for increased UE carrier monitoring for Evolved Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) Terrestrial Radio Access Network (EUTRA) monitoring;
monitoring, by the UE, any of between 0 and 8 Frequency Division Duplex (FDD) E-UTRA inter-frequency carriers; and
monitoring, by the UE, any of between 0 and 8 Time Division Duplex (TDD) EUTRA inter-frequency carriers.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
configuring the UE for increased UE carrier monitoring for Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRA) monitoring;
monitoring, by the UE, any of between 0 and 6 Frequency Division Duplex (FDD) UTRA carriers; and
monitoring, by the UE, any of between 0 and 7 Time Division Duplex (TDD) UTRA carriers.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
configuring the UE to be in an RRC CONNECTED state;
determining that no measurement gaps of the UE are activated;
in response to determining that no measurement gaps of the UE are activated, measuring, by the UE, each of Reference Signal Received Power (RSRP), Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ), and Reference Signal based Signal to Noise and Interference Ratio (RS-SINR) for any of between 0 and 8 identified-intra-frequency cells of the plurality of cells.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
measuring, by the UE, each of Reference Signal Received Power (RSRP), Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ), and Reference Signal based Signal to Noise and Interference Ratio (RS-SINR) for any of between 0 and 8 identified cells of the plurality of cells, wherein each of the RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR are measured on a secondary component carrier.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
configuring the UE for increased UE carrier monitoring for E-UTRA monitoring; measuring, by the UE, each of RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR of at least between 0 to 4 inter-frequency cells per FDD inter-frequency for any of between 0 and 8 FDD interfrequencies.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
determining that the UE does not support Increased UE carrier monitoring EUTRA; and measuring, by the UE, each of RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR of at least between 0 to 4 inter-frequency cells per FDD inter -frequency for any of between 0 and 4 FDD inter-frequencies.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the UE is configured by a next generation (gNB) node of the RAN by the RCC Reconfiguration IE.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the RCC IE comprises one of a highSpeedEnhancedMeasFlag or Secondary Component Carrier (SCC)
measurementEnhancements for indicating HST.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
configuring the UE to identify new intra-frequency cells and perform RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements of identified intra-frequency cells without an explicit intra-frequency neighbor cell list containing physical layer cell identities; and configuring the UE to measure, during an RRC_CONNECTED state, identified intra frequency cells and additionally search for and identify the new intra frequency cells.
11. An apparatus comprising:
one or more processors;
a transceiver; and
a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
receiving, by the transceiver, from a radio access network (RAN) comprising a plurality of cells, a radio resource control (RRC) information element (IE) indicating a high speed scenario (HST); and
monitoring, by the one or more processors through the transceiver, in response to receiving the RRC IE indicating HST, a first number of frequency carriers that is reduced relative to a second number of frequency carriers monitored during a non-HST.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
configuring the one or more processors to perform increased UE carrier monitoring for Evolved Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRA) monitoring;
monitoring, by the one or more processors using the transceiver, any of between 0 and 8 Frequency Division Duplex (FDD) E-UTRA inter-frequency carriers; and
monitoring, by the one or more processors using the transceiver, any of between 0 and 8 Time Division Duplex (TDD) E-UTRA inter-frequency carriers.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
configuring the one or more processors to perform increased UE carrier monitoring for Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRA) monitoring;
monitoring, by the one or more processors using the transceiver, any of between 0 and 6 Frequency Division Duplex (FDD) UTRA carriers; and
monitoring, by the one or more processors using the transceiver, any of between 0 and 7 Time Division Duplex (TDD) UTRA carriers.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
configuring the one or more processors to be in an RRC CONNECTED state; determining that no measurement gaps for the transceiver and the one or more processors are activated;
in response to determining that no measurement gaps are activated, measuring, by the one or more processors using the transceiver, each of Reference Signal Received Power (RSRP), Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ), and Reference Signal based Signal to Noise and Interference Ratio (RS-SINR) for any of between 0 and 8 identifiedintra-frequency cells of the plurality of cells.
15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
measuring, by the one or more processors using the transceiver, each of Reference Signal Received Power (RSRP), Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ), and Reference Signal based Signal to Noise and Interference Ratio (RS-SINR) for any of between 0 and 8 identified cells of the plurality of cells, wherein each of the RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR are measured on a secondary component carrier.
16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
configuring the one or more processors for increased UE carrier monitoring for EUTRA monitoring;
measuring, by the one or more processors using the transceiver, each of RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR of at least between 0 to 4 inter-frequency cells per FDD interfrequency for any of between 0 and 8 FDD inter-frequencies.
17. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
determining that the one or more processors or transceiver does not support Increased UE carrier monitoring E-UTRA; and
measuring, by the one or more processors using the transceiver, each of RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR of at least between 0 to 4 inter-frequency cells per FDD inter - frequency for any of between 0 and 4 FDD inter-frequencies.
18. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are configured by a next generation (gNB) node of the RAN by the RCC Reconfiguration IE.
19. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the RCC IE comprises one of a highSpeedEnhancedMeasFlag or Secondary Component Carrier (SCC)
measurementEnhancements for indicating HST.
20. The apparatus of claim 11, the operations further comprising: configuring the one or more processors to identify new intra-frequency cells and perform RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements of identified intra-frequency cells without an explicit intra-frequency neighbor cell list containing physical layer cell identities; and
configuring the one or more processors to measure, during an
RRC CONNECTED state, measure identified intra frequency cells and additionally search for and identify the new intra frequency cells.
21. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software comprising instructions executable by one or more processors which, upon such execution, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
receiving, from a radio access network (RAN) comprising a plurality of cells, a radio resource control (RRC) information element (IE) indicating a high speed scenario (HST); and
monitoring, by the one or more processors, in response to receiving the RRC IE indicating HST, a first number of frequency carriers that is reduced relative to a second number of frequency carriers monitored during a non-HST.
22. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
configuring the one or more processors to perform increased UE carrier monitoring for Evolved Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRA) monitoring;
monitoring, by the one or more processors, any of between 0 and 8 Frequency Division Duplex (FDD) E-UTRA inter-frequency carriers; and
monitoring, by the one or more processors, any of between 0 and 8 Time Division Duplex (TDD) E-UTRA inter-frequency carriers.
23. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
configuring the one or more processors to perform increased UE carrier monitoring for Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRA) monitoring;
monitoring, by the one or more processors, any of between 0 and 6 Frequency Division Duplex (FDD) UTRA carriers; and
monitoring, by the one or more processors, any of between 0 and 7 Time Division Duplex (TDD) UTRA carriers.
24. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
configuring the one or more processors to be in an RRC CONNECTED state; determining that no measurement gaps for the one or more processors are activated; in response to determining that no measurement gaps are activated, measuring, by the one or more processors, each of Reference Signal Received Power (RSRP), Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ), and Reference Signal based Signal to Noise and Interference Ratio (RS-SINR) for any of between 0 and 8 identified-intra-frequency cells of the plurality of cells.
25. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
measuring, by the one or more processors, each of Reference Signal Received Power (RSRP), Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ), and Reference Signal based Signal to Noise and Interference Ratio (RS-SINR) for any of between 0 and 8 identified cells of the plurality of cells, wherein each of the RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR are measured on a secondary component carrier.
26. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises: configuring the one or more processors for increased UE carrier monitoring for EETTRA monitoring;
measuring, by the one or more processors, each of RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR of at least between 0 to 4 inter-frequency cells per FDD inter-frequency for any of between 0 and 8 FDD inter-frequencies.
27. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein monitoring the first number of frequency carriers comprises:
determining that the one or more processors do not support Increased UE carrier monitoring E-UTRA; and
measuring, by the one or more processors, each of RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR of at least between 0 to 4 inter-frequency cells per FDD inter -frequency for any of between 0 and 4 FDD inter-frequencies.
28. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the one or more processors are configured by a next generation (gNB) node of the RAN by the RCC Reconfiguration IE.
29. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the RCC IE comprises one of a highSpeedEnhancedMeasFlag or Secondary Component Carrier (SCC) measurementEnhancements for indicating HST.
30. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, the operations further comprising:
configuring the one or more processors to identify new intra-frequency cells and perform RSRP, RSRQ, and RS-SINR measurements of identified intra-frequency cells without an explicit intra-frequency neighbor cell list containing physical layer cell identities; and
configuring the one or more processors to measure, during an
RRC CONNECTED state, measure identified intra frequency cells and additionally search for and identify the new intra frequency cells.
</claims>
</document>
