<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/11,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06Q30/02,G06Q40/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JPMORGAN CHASE
</assignee>

<inventors>
COTTON, PETER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70332080
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING DATA SCIENCE AS A SERVICE
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to a computer-implemented system and method for providing data science as a service (DSaaS) using a real time data prediction contest. Participants in the real time data prediction contest are permitted to execute and submit algorithms, utilize third party data sources, and utilize sub-contests to generate data predictions for the data prediction contest. The participants in the data prediction contest may be humans or software robots. A category of sponsor confidential information related to the data prediction is defined and maintained as confidential by the sponsor, while various methods are implemented to obtain relevant algorithms and data for the data prediction. The sponsor receives data predictions from the participants on a real time or near real time basis, calculates a score for the data predictions, and compensates participants according to their score.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented system for providing data science as a service (DSaaS) using a data prediction contest, the system comprising:
a memory; and
a computer processor that is programmed to:
execute a data prediction contest, wherein (a) the data prediction contest is conducted in real time or near real time, (b) participants in the data prediction contest are permitted to execute and submit algorithms, utilize third party data sources, and utilize subcontests to generate data predictions for the data prediction contest, (c) the data prediction contest is machine-readable to enable software robots to be participants in the data prediction contest; and (d) a category of sponsor confidential information is defined with respect to a category of confidential information of the sponsor related to the data prediction;
maintain the confidentiality of the sponsor confidential information; receive data predictions from the participants on a real time or near real time basis;
calculate a score for the data predictions received from a participant; and compensate participants according to the score of their data predictions.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer processor is programmed to request prediction of a public variable that serves as a proxy for a private variable maintained as sponsor confidential information by the sponsor of the data prediction contest.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein a variation of the public variable that is the subject of the data contest is causally related to a variation of the private variable maintained as sponsor confidential information.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer processor is programmed to transmit a subset of a data stream to participants of the data prediction contest such that participants do not receive a complete data stream, thereby preventing use of the complete data stream for purposes other than participation by the participant in the data prediction contest.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer processor is programmed to
transmit a data stream to participants of the data prediction contest; and
introduce traceable changes to the data stream to enable investigation of use of the data stream by participants for purposes other than participation in the data prediction contest.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein a sub-contest is used to predict a participant's residuals.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer processor is programmed to execute a discriminator contest to distinguish fake data from real data.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer processor is programmed to estimate a generative model using an adversarial process in which two models are trained: a generative model G that captures a data distribution, and a discriminative model D that estimates a probability that a sample came from training data rather than the generative model G.
9. The system of claim 1 wherein the computer processor is programmed to require participants in the data prediction contest to agree to cloning of their submitted algorithms to enable the sponsor to use their submitted algorithms on private data without sponsor confidential information being disclosed to the participants.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer processor is programmed to:
use a generative model to populate a family of real-time data prediction contests;
conduct a plurality of public real time data prediction contests in which observations are supplied but sponsor confidential information comprising ground truth targets are withheld; receive predictive models from the participants;
use the predictive models as inference approximations.
11. A computer-implemented method for providing data science as a service (DSaaS) using a data prediction contest, the method comprising:
executing a data prediction contest using a computer processor, wherein (a) the data prediction contest is conducted in real time or near real time, (b) participants in the data prediction contest are permitted to execute and submit algorithms, utilize third party data sources, and utilize sub-contests to generate data predictions for the data prediction contest, (c) the data prediction contest is machine-readable to enable software robots to be participants in the data prediction contest; and (d) a category of sponsor confidential information is defined with respect to a category of confidential information of the sponsor related to the data prediction; maintaining the confidentiality of the sponsor confidential information; receiving data predictions from the participants on a real time or near real time basis; calculating a score for the data predictions received from a participant; and
compensating participants according to the score of their data predictions.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of:
requesting prediction of a public variable that serves as a proxy for a private variable maintained as sponsor confidential information by the sponsor of the data prediction contest.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein a variation of the public variable that is the subject of the data contest is causally related to a variation of the private variable maintained as sponsor confidential information.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of transmitting a subset of a data stream to participants of the data prediction contest such that participants do not receive a complete data stream, thereby preventing use of the complete data stream for purposes other than participation by the participant in the data prediction contest.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising the steps of:
transmitting a data stream to participants of the data prediction contest; and
introducing traceable changes to the data stream to enable investigation of use of the data stream by participants for purposes other than participation in the data prediction contest.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of using a sub-contest to predict a participant's residuals
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of executing a discrimintaor contest to distinguish fake data from real data.
18. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
estimating a generative model using an adversarial process in which two models are trained: a generative model G that captures a data distribution, and a discriminative model D that estimates a probability that a sample came from training data rather than the generative model G.
19. The method of claim 11 further comprising requiring participants in the data prediction contest to agree to cloning of their submitted algorithms to enable the sponsor to use their submitted algorithms on private data without sponsor confidential information being disclosed to the participants.
20. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
using a generative model to populate a family of real-time data prediction contests;
conducting a plurality of public real time data prediction contests in which observations are supplied but sponsor confidential information comprising ground truth targets are withheld; receiving predictive models from the participants; and
using the predictive models as inference approximations.
</claims>
</document>
