<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B06B1/02,G10K13/00,G10K9/12,H04R19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
GILBERT, STEPHEN M.
HORTON-BAILEY, DONEZ J.
LONG, HU
ZETTL, ALEXANDER, K.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67660487
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ACOUSTIC TRANSDUCER INCLUDING A MODIFIED MEMBRANE
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure provides systems, methods, and apparatus related to acoustic transducers.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A device comprising:
a membrane, the membrane being electrically conductive, a portion of the membrane operable to generate or detect an acoustic wave being about 1 micron to 1 millimeter in diameter, the membrane including a feature selected from features consisting of (1) the membrane having radial cuts and azimuthal cuts defined therein, (2) the membrane having open regions defined therein, and (3) the membrane having a mass disposed thereon;
a first electrode proximate a first side of the membrane, the first electrode being electrically conductive; and
a second electrode proximate a second side of the membrane, the second electrode being electrically conductive, the membrane being suspended between the first electrode and the second electrode.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the membrane has the radial cuts and the azimuthal cuts defined therein, and wherein the radial cuts and the azimuthal cuts function to allow a central circular potion of the membrane to be in a different plane and rotated relative to edges of the membrane.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the membrane has open regions defined therein, and wherein the open regions comprise substantially circular holes.
4. The device of claim 3, wherein the substantially circular holes have a diameter of about 20 nanometers to 60 nanometers.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the membrane has open regions defined therein, and wherein the open regions comprise V-shaped open regions.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the membrane has a mass disposed thereon, and wherein the mass comprises a circularly shaped mass.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the membrane has a mass disposed thereon, and wherein the mass comprises a metal.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the membrane comprises single layer graphene, multilayer graphene, a single layer of a two-dimensional material, multiple layers of a two-dimensional material, a metal, a semiconductor, or a polymer film.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the membrane comprises single layer graphene or multilayer graphene.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the membrane comprises graphene, and wherein the membrane is about 20 nanometers to 40 nanometers thick.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the membrane is about 10 nanometers to 100 microns thick.
12. The device of claim 1, wherein the device is operable to convert the acoustic wave to an electrical signal.
13. The device of claim 1, wherein the device is operable to convert an electrical signal to the acoustic wave.
14. The device of claim 1, wherein the first electrode has a first non-conductive layer disposed thereon, and wherein the second electrode has a second non-conductive layer disposed thereon.
15. The device of clam 1, further comprising:
a first frame disposed on the first side of the membrane; and
a second frame disposed on the second side of the membrane, the first frame and the second frame both including substantially circular open regions that define a substantially circular portion of the membrane operable to generate or to detect the acoustic wave.
16. The device of claim 15, wherein the first frame and the second frame are about 60 microns to 180 microns thick.
17. The device of claim 15, wherein the first electrode is in contact with the first frame, wherein the first electrode is spaced a first distance of about 60 microns to 180 microns from the first side of the membrane, wherein the second electrode is in contact with the second frame, and wherein the second electrode is spaced a second distance of about 60 microns to 180 microns from the second side of the membrane.
18. The device of claim 1, wherein the first electrode and the second electrode define open regions having a dimension of about 200 microns to 300 microns.
19. The device of claim 1, wherein the first electrode and the second electrode comprise silicon wafers.
20. The device of claim 1, further comprising:
a wire in electrical contact with the graphene membrane.
21. The device of claim 20, wherein the wire is a gold wire with a diameter of about 10 microns to 30 microns.
22. A device comprising:
a membrane, a portion of the membrane operable to detect an acoustic wave being about 1 micron to 1 millimeter in diameter, the membrane including a feature selected from features consisting of (1) the membrane having radial cuts and azimuthal cuts defined therein, (2) the membrane having open regions defined therein, and (3) the membrane having a mass disposed thereon;
a first electrode proximate a first side of the membrane; and
a circuit associated with the first electrode, the circuit being configured to measure a velocity of vibration of the membrane, the vibration being caused by the acoustic wave.
23. The device of claim 22, further comprising:
a frame supporting the membrane, wherein the frame includes a substantially circular open region that defines a substantially circular portion of the membrane operable to detect the acoustic wave.
24. The device of claim 22, wherein the membrane comprises single layer graphene, multilayer graphene, a single layer of a two-dimensional material, multiple layers of a two-dimensional material, a metal, a semiconductor, or a polymer film.
25. The device of claim 22, wherein the membrane comprises single layer graphene or multilayer graphene.
26. The device of claim 22, wherein the membrane comprises graphene, and wherein the membrane is about 20 nanometers to 40 nanometers thick.
27. The device of claim 22, wherein the circuit comprises a resistor and an amplifier, wherein the membrane is connected to a voltage source, wherein the first electrode is connected to a negative input of the amplifier, wherein a positive input of the amplifier is connected to ground, and wherein the resistor is connected to the negative input of the amplifier and an output of the amplifier.
28. The device of claim 27, wherein the resistor has a resistance of about 1 megaohms to 10000 megaohms.
29. The device of claim 27, wherein the amplifier comprises a low noise operational amplifier.
30. The device of claim 27, wherein the voltage source is configured to apply a voltage of about 20 volts to 1000 volts to the membrane.
31. The device of claim 22, wherein the device is configured to generate an output signal through the circuit in response to the sound waves, and wherein the sound waves have a frequency of about 20 Hz to 10 GHz.
32. The device of claim 22, further comprising:
a first spacer, wherein the first spacer is disposed between the membrane and the first electrode.
33. The device of claim 22, further comprising:
a second electrode proximate a second side of the membrane.
34. A method comprising:
(a) providing a device including:
a membrane, the membrane being electrically conductive, a portion of the membrane operable to generate or detect an acoustic wave being about 1 micron to 1 millimeter in diameter, the membrane including a feature selected from features consisting of (1) the membrane having radial cuts and azimuthal cuts defined therein, (2) the membrane having open regions defined therein, and (3) the membrane having a mass disposed thereon;
a first electrode proximate a first side of the membrane, the first electrode being electrically conductive; and
a second electrode proximate a second side of the membrane, the second electrode being electrically conductive, the membrane being suspended between the first electrode and the second electrode.
(b) biasing the membrane with a direct current voltage; and
(c) biasing the first electrode and the second electrode with an input signal, causing the membrane to move and generate the acoustic wave.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein the input signal is generated from an audio signal.
36. The method of claim 34, wherein the direct current voltage is about 50 volts to 150 volts.
37. The method of claim 34, wherein an amplitude of the input signal is about 0 volts to 15 volts.
38. The method of claim 34, wherein in operation (c), the first electrode and the second electrode are biased at opposite polarities.
39. The method of claim 34, wherein the membrane comprises single layer graphene, multilayer graphene, a single layer of a two-dimensional material, multiple layers of a two-dimensional material, a metal, a semiconductor, or a polymer film.
</claims>
</document>
