<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/738,G06T11/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
STORER, NATHANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72605276
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OPTIMIZED VIDEO REVIEW USING MOTION RECAP IMAGES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods provide for optimizing video review using motion recap images. A video review system can identify background image data of a video clip including an amount of motion satisfying a motion threshold. The video review system can generate foreground mask data segmenting foreground image data, representing a moving object in the video clip, from the background image data. The video review system can select a set of instances of the moving object represented in the foreground image data. The video review system can generate a motion recap image by superimposing the set of instances of the moving object represented in the foreground image data onto the background data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computerimplemented method comprising:
identifying, by a video review system, background image data of a video clip including an amount of motion satisfying a motion threshold;
generating, by the video review system, foreground mask data segmenting foreground image data, representing a moving object in the video clip, from the background image data;
selecting a set of instances of the moving object represented in the foreground image data; and
generating a motion recap image by superimposing the set of instances of the moving object represented in the foreground image data onto the background image data.
2. The computerimplemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving a motion search query requesting for video data including the amount of motion satisfying the motion threshold;
determining the video clip is responsive to the motion search query; and presenting the motion recap image in response to the motion search query.
3. The computerimplemented method of claim 2, further comprising:
determining one or more additional video clips are responsive to the motion search query;
generating one or more additional motion recap images each corresponding to the one or more additional video clips; and presenting the motion recap image and the one or more additional motion recap images concurrently in response to the motion search query.
4. The computer-implemented method of any preceding claim, wherein generating the foreground mask data includes:
extracting raw foreground image data from the video clip by subtracting the background image data from one or more frames; and
applying one or more image filters to the raw foreground image data.
5. The computerimplemented method of claim 4, wherein the one or more image filters include a dilation filter, an erosion filter, a blob segmentation filter, a small blob filter, or a Gaussian blur.
6. The computer-implemented method of any preceding claim, wherein the set of instances of the moving object is selected based on non-fixed sampling.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, further comprising:
determining that a current timestamp of a current frame is within a time threshold of a previous timestamp of a previously selected frame;
determining that a current bounding box of the current frame overlaps with a previous bounding box of the previously selected frame; and
selecting the current frame as one of the set of instances of the moving object represented in the foreground image data.
8. The computerimplemented method of any preceding claim, further comprising:
determining a distance to the moving object represented in each of the set of instances; and
determining an order for superimposing each instance of the set of instances based on the distance to the moving object represented in each of the set of instances.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the distance to the moving object represented in each of the set of instances is measured from a camera capturing the video clip.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the distance to the moving object represented in each of the set of instances is measured from a center of a frame of each of the set of instances.
11. The computerimplemented method of any preceding claim, wherein the motion recap image is generated locally at where the video clip is captured.
12. The computer-implemented method of any preceding claim, further comprising:
receiving a selection of one of the set of instances of the moving object in the motion recap image; and
presenting the video clip at a timestamp corresponding to the selection.
13. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and
memory including instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to:
receive a motion search query requesting for video data including an amount of motion satisfying a motion threshold;
identify a video clip that is responsive to the motion search query;
identifying background image data of the video clip;
generate foreground mask data segmenting foreground image data, representing a moving object in the video clip, from the background image data;
select a set of instances of the moving object represented in the foreground image data;
generate a motion recap image by superimposing the set of instances of the moving object represented in the foreground image data onto the background image data; and
present the motion recap image in response to the motion search query.
14. The system of claim 13, further comprising instructions that, when executed, further cause the system to:
determine one or more additional video clips are responsive to the motion search query;
generate one or more additional motion recap images each corresponding to the one or more additional video clips; and present the motion recap image and the one or more additional motion recap images concurrently in response to the motion search query.
15. The system of claim 13 or 14, wherein the instructions to generate the foreground mask data include causing the system to:
extract raw foreground image data from the video clip by subtracting the background image data from one or more frames; and
apply one or more image filters to the raw foreground image data,
wherein the one or more image filters include a dilation filter, an erosion filter, a blob segmentation filter, a small blob filter, or a Gaussian blur.
16. The system of any of claims 13 to 15, wherein the motion recap image is generated locally at where the video clip is captured.
17. A nontransitory computer-readable storage medium having stored therein instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a system, cause the system to:
receive a motion search query requesting for video data including an amount of motion satisfying a motion threshold;
identify a video clip that is responsive to the motion search query;
identifying background image data of the video clip;
generate foreground mask data segmenting foreground image data, representing a moving object in the video clip, from the background image data; select a set of instances of the moving object represented in the foreground image data;
generate a motion recap image by superimposing the set of instances of the moving object represented in the foreground image data onto the background image data; and
present the motion recap image in response to the motion search query.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the set of instances of the foreground image is selected based on non-fixed sampling.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, further comprising instructions that, when executed, further cause the system to:
determine that a current timestamp of a current frame is within a time threshold of a previous timestamp of a previously selected frame;
determine that a current bounding box of the current frame overlaps with a previous bounding box of the previously selected frame; and
select the current frame as one of the set of instances of the moving object represented in the foreground image data.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17 to 19, further comprising instructions that, when executed, further cause the system to:
determine a distance to the moving object represented in each of the set of instances; and determine an order for superimposing each instance of the set of instances based on the distance to the moving object represented in each of the set of instances.
</claims>
</document>
