<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06E1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SERVICETITAN, INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
GORDENKER, Miles
QIU, Tianyu
SELVAKKUMARAN, Navaratnasothie
KUZOYAN, Vahe
YAKUNIN, Alexander
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72832598
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
JOB VALUE MODEL GENERATION METHOD AND SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and computer program products for generating job value predictions by a trained model for a tenant include receiving live data associated with a tenant, where the live data includes information associated with a job to be performed by the tenant. A trained model associated with the tenant is retrieved, where the trained model is configured to generate a job value prediction for the job to be performed. The live data is preprocessed to obtain a set of features associated with the job, the set of features consumable by the trained model, and the trained model is applied to the set of features to generate the job value prediction for the job to be performed by the tenant.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for predicting the value of a j ob, the method comprising:
receiving live data associated with a tenant, the live data comprising information associated with a job to be performed by the tenant;
retrieving a trained model associated with the tenant, wherein the trained model is configured to generate a job value prediction for the job to be performed;
preprocessing the live data to obtain a set of features associated with the job, the set of features consumable by the trained model; and
applying the trained model to the set of features to generate the job value prediction for the job to be performed by the tenant.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein preprocessing the live data comprises applying one or more encoding techniques associated with the tenant to the live data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein preprocessing the live data comprises applying one or more natural language processing (NLP) techniques to the live data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein preprocessing the live data comprises applying one or more natural dimensionality reduction techniques to the live data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the trained model is a regression model and the job value prediction for the job is a real number.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the live data comprises one or more of an associated marketing campaign identification, a business unit identification, a job type identification, a job priority value, a call direction value, a call date value, a call script field, a job zip code field, a job latitude value, a job longitude value, a customer balance value, a customer credit card count, a customer bank account count, a customer invoice total value, a weather field, or a questionnaire data field, wherein the questionnaire data field is designed at least in part by the tenant.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising training a machine learning model to generate the trained model, wherein training the machine learning model comprises: receiving a historical dataset associated with the tenant, the historical dataset comprising a historical record of features associated with the job;
generating a training dataset and a testing dataset from the historical dataset;
training the machine learning model using the training dataset; and
testing and updating the machine learning model using the testing dataset.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the historical record of features associated with the job comprises one or more of a job value total, job revenue, or profits for the job performed by the tenant or one or more other tenants over a period of time.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising retraining the machine learning model on a regular scheduled basis.
10. A system, comprising:
one or more processors; and
a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium containing instructions which, when executed on the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations including:
receiving live data associated with a tenant, the live data comprising information associated with a job to be performed by the tenant;
retrieving a trained model associated with the tenant, wherein the trained model is configured to generate a job value prediction for the job to be performed;
preprocessing the live data to obtain a set of features associated with the job, the set of features consumable by the trained model; and
applying the trained model to the set of features to generate the job value prediction for the job to be performed by the tenant.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein preprocessing the live data comprises applying one or more encoding techniques associated with the tenant to the live data.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein preprocessing the live data comprises applying one or more natural language processing (NLP) techniques to the live data.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein preprocessing the live data comprises applying one or more natural dimensionality reduction techniques to the live data.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the trained model is a regression model and the job value prediction for the job is a real number.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the live data comprises one or more of an associated marketing campaign identification, a business unit identification, a job type identification, a job priority value, a call direction value, a call date value, a call script field, a job zip code field, a job latitude value, a job longitude value, a customer balance value, a customer credit card count, a customer bank account count, a customer invoice total value, a weather field, or a questionnaire data field, wherein the questionnaire data field is designed at least in part by the tenant.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise training a machine learning model to generate the trained model, wherein training the machine learning model comprises:
receiving a historical dataset associated with the tenant, the historical dataset comprising a historical record of features associated with the job;
generating a training dataset and a testing dataset from the historical dataset;
training the machine learning model using the training dataset; and
testing and updating the machine learning model using the testing dataset.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the historical record of features associated with the job comprises one or more of a job value total, job revenue, or profits for the job performed by the tenant or one or more other tenants over a period of time.
18. The system of claim 16, further comprising retraining the machine learning model on a regular scheduled basis.
19. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium, including instructions configured to cause a data processing apparatus to perform operations including:
receiving live data associated with a tenant, the live data comprising information associated with a job to be performed by the tenant;
retrieving a trained model associated with the tenant, wherein the trained model is configured to generate a job value prediction for the job to be performed;
preprocessing the live data to obtain a set of features associated with the job, the set of features consumable by the trained model; and
applying the trained model to the set of features to generate the job value prediction for the job to be performed by the tenant.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the live data comprises one or more of an associated marketing campaign identification, a business unit identification, a job type identification, a job priority value, a call direction value, a call date value, a call script field, a job zip code field, a job latitude value, a job longitude value, a customer balance value, a customer credit card count, a customer bank account count, a customer invoice total value, a weather field, or a questionnaire data field, wherein the questionnaire data field is designed at least in part by the tenant.
</claims>
</document>
