<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE CLIMATE CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
PESHLOV, BOYAN
WANG WEILIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71072787
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MAPPING FIELD ANOMALIES USING DIGITAL IMAGES AND MACHINE LEARNING MODELS
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for generating an improved map of field anomalies using digital images and machine learning models is disclosed. In an embodiment, a method comprises: obtaining a shapefile that defines boundaries of an agricultural plot and boundaries of the field containing the plot; obtaining a plurality of plot images; calibrating and pre-processing the plurality of plot images to create a plot map of the agricultural plot at a plot level; based on the plot map, generating a plot grid; based on the plot grid and the plot map, generating a plurality of plot tiles; based on the plurality of plot tiles, generating, using a machine learning model and a plurality of image classifiers corresponding to one or more anomalies, a set of classified plot images that depicts at least one anomaly; based on the set of classified plot images, generating a plot anomaly map for the agricultural plot.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method for generating an improved map of field anomalies using digital images and machine learning models, the method comprising: obtaining a shapefile that defines boundaries of an agricultural plot;
obtaining a plurality of plot images from one or more image capturing devices that are located within the boundaries of the agricultural plot;
calibrating and pre-processing the plurality of plot images to create a plot map of the agricultural plot at a plot level;
based on the plot map of the agricultural plot, generating a plot grid;
based on the plot grid and the plot map, generating a plurality of plot tiles;
based on the plurality of plot tiles, generating, using a first machine learning model and a plurality of first image classifiers corresponding to one or more first anomalies, a set of classified plot images that depicts at least one anomaly;
based on the set of classified plot images, generating a plot anomaly map for the agricultural plot;
transmitting the plot anomaly map to one or more controllers that control one or more agricultural machines to perform agricultural functions on the agricultural plot.
2. The computer-implemented method of Claim 1, wherein the shapefile is generated by performing:
obtaining a plurality of aerial images of an agricultural field;
calibrating and pre-processing the plurality of aerial images to create a field map of the agricultural field at a field level;
based on the field map of the agricultural field, generating a field grid;
based on the field grid and the field map, generating a plurality of field tiles; based on the plurality of field tiles, generating, using a second machine learning model and a plurality of second image classifiers corresponding to one or more second anomalies, a set of classified field images that depicts at least one anomaly;
based on the set of classified field images, generating a field anomaly map for the agricultural field; based on the field anomaly map, generating the boundaries for the agricultural plot.
3. The computer-implemented method of Claim 2, wherein the agricultural plot is a part of the agricultural field.
4. The computer-implemented method of Claim 2, wherein the plot anomaly map has a higher-level of detail than the field anomaly map;
wherein the plurality of first image classifiers has a higher-level of detail than the plurality of second image classifiers;
wherein the plurality of first image classifiers includes two or more of: one or more interrow image classifiers, one or more weed image classifiers, one or more bare soil classifiers, one or more lodging classifiers, or one or more standing water classifiers; wherein the one or more first anomalies have a higher-level of detail than the one or more second anomalies.
5. The computer-implemented method of Claim 2, wherein the shapefile is used to control the one or more image capturing devices configured to capture the one or more plot images from the agricultural plot defined by the boundaries.
6. The computer-implemented method of Claim 2, wherein the plurality of plot images is captured by the one or more image capturing devices as the one or more image capturing device are controlled based on contents of the shapefile specifying the boundaries of the agricultural plot.
7. The computer-implemented method of Claim 2, wherein the one or more image capturing devices are installed on any of: moving farming equipment, stationary farming equipment, stationary posts, stationary structures, handheld devices, or mobile devices.
8. The computer-implemented method of Claim 1, wherein the calibrating and pre-processing of the plurality of plot images to create the plot map of the agricultural plot at the plot level comprises performing one or more of: calibrating the plurality of plot images, stitching the plurality of plot images at the plot level to create the plot map, or correcting one or more colors depicted in the plurality of plot images.
9. The computer-implemented method of Claim 1, wherein the calibrating and pre-processing of the plurality of plot images to create the plot map of the agricultural plot at the plot level is performed by an edge tensor processing unit (Edge TPU).
10. The computer-implemented method of Claim 1, wherein the plot anomaly map for the agricultural plot comprises one or more specific anomaly maps, each specific anomaly map depicting a specific anomaly identified for the agricultural plot.
11. One or more non-transitory storage media storing instructions which, when executed by one or more computing devices, cause the one or more computing devices to perform:
obtaining a shapefile that defines boundaries of an agricultural plot;
obtaining a plurality of plot images from one or more image capturing devices that are located within the boundaries of the agricultural plot;
calibrating and pre-processing the plurality of plot images to create a plot map of the agricultural plot at a plot level;
based on the plot map of the agricultural plot, generating a plot grid;
based on the plot grid and the plot map, generating a plurality of plot tiles;
based on the plurality of plot tiles, generating, using a first machine learning model and a plurality of first image classifiers corresponding to one or more first anomalies, a set of classified plot images that depicts at least one anomaly;
based on the set of classified plot images, generating a plot anomaly map for the agricultural plot;
transmitting the plot anomaly map to one or more controllers that control one or more agricultural machines to perform agricultural functions on the agricultural plot.
12. The one or more non-transitory storage media of Claim 11, storing additional instructions which, when executed by the one or more computing devices, cause the one or more computing devices to perform:
obtaining a plurality of aerial images of an agricultural field;
calibrating and pre-processing the plurality of aerial images to create a field map of the agricultural field at a field level;
based on the field map of the agricultural field, generating a field grid;
based on the field grid and the field map, generating a plurality of field tiles; based on the plurality of field tiles, generating, using a second machine learning model and a plurality of second image classifiers corresponding to one or more second anomalies, a set of classified field images that depicts at least one anomaly;
based on the set of classified field images, generating a field anomaly map for the agricultural field;
based on the field anomaly map, generating the boundaries for the agricultural plot.
13. The one or more non-transitory storage media of Claim 12, wherein the agricultural plot is a part of the agricultural field.
14. The one or more non-transitory storage media of Claim 12, wherein the plot anomaly map has a higher-level of detail than the field anomaly map;
wherein the plurality of first image classifiers has a higher-level of detail than the plurality of second image classifiers;
wherein the plurality of first image classifiers includes two or more of: one or more interrow image classifiers, one or more weed image classifiers, one or more bare soil classifiers, one or more lodging classifiers, or one or more standing water classifiers; wherein the one or more first anomalies have a higher-level of detail than the one or more second anomalies.
15. The one or more non-transitory storage media of Claim 12, wherein the shapefile is used to control the one or more image capturing devices configured to capture the one or more plot images from the agricultural plot defined by the boundaries.
16. The one or more non-transitory storage media of Claim 12, wherein the plurality of plot images is captured by the one or more image capturing devices as the one or more image capturing device are controlled based on contents of the shapefile specifying the boundaries of the agricultural plot.
17. The one or more non-transitory storage media of Claim 12, wherein the one or more image capturing devices are installed on any of: moving farming equipment, stationary farming equipment, stationary posts, stationary structures, handheld devices, or mobile devices.
18. The one or more non-transitory storage media of Claim 11, wherein the calibrating and pre-processing of the plurality of plot images to create the plot map of the agricultural plot at the plot level comprises performing one or more of: calibrating the plurality of plot images, stitching the plurality of plot images at the plot level to create the plot map, or correcting one or more colors depicted in the plurality of plot images.
19. The one or more non-transitory storage media of Claim 11, wherein the calibrating and pre-processing of the plurality of plot images to create the plot map of the agricultural plot at the plot level is performed by an edge tensor processing unit (Edge TPU).
20. The one or more non-transitory storage media of Claim 11, wherein the plot anomaly map for the agricultural plot comprises one or more specific anomaly maps, each specific anomaly map depicting a specific anomaly identified for the agricultural plot.
</claims>
</document>
