<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/04,A61N1/05,A61N1/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RIDDER, DIRK DE
</assignee>

<inventors>
RIDDER, DIRK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69185617
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR SENSING BALANCE BETWEEN NEURONAL ACTIVITY INPUTS AND PATHWAYS AND NEUROMODULATION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods are provided for treating a neurological disorder in a patient. Systems are provided for applying electrical stimulation to the brain. The methods and systems measure first and second neuronal activity signals of a brain at first and second cortex areas of interest, respectively, utilizing one or more sensors. The methods and systems determine a quantitative relation between the first and second neuronal activity signals and obtains a balanced relation that is indicative of a select level of balance between neuronal activity at the first and second cortex areas of interest. The methods and systems compare the quantitative relation to the balanced relation to determine whether the quantitative relation is indicative of a presence of a pathological neurological condition and applies electrical stimulation to one or more sites in the brain in response to the quantitative relation being indicative of the presence of the pathological neurological condition.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of treating a neurological disorder in a patient, comprising:
measuring first and second neuronal activity signals of a brain at first and second cortex areas of interest, respectively, utilizing one or more sensors;
determining a quantitative relation between the first and second neuronal activity signals;
obtaining a balanced relation that is indicative of a select level of balance between neuronal activity at the first and second cortex areas of interest;
comparing the quantitative relation to the balanced relation to determine whether the quantitative relation is indicative of a presence of a pathological neurological condition; and
applying electrical stimulation to one or more sites in the brain in response to the quantitative relation being indicative of the presence of the pathological neurological condition.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the first and second cortex areas of interest comprise one or more of: a right dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (rdACC), a somatosensory cortex (SSC) and a pregenual anterior cingulate cortex (pgACC).
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first cortex area of interest represents at least one of the rdACC or SSC, while the second cortex area of interest represents the pgACC.
4. The method of claim 1 , wherein the one or more sensors include first and second electrodes implanted in intradural or extradural regions.
5. The method of claim 1 , wherein the determining the quantitative relation comprises determining at least one of a quantitative activity relation or a quantitative connectivity relation, the quantitative connectivity relation including at least one of functional connectivity relation or an effective connectivity relation.
6. The method of claim 1 , wherein the balanced relation includes a balanced activity relation defined at least in part based on a ratio of current density between first and second baseline neuronal activity signals of a brain as measured at first and second cortex areas of interest when the brain is exhibiting a non-pathologic neurological condition.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the balanced activity relation is defined by the ratio of a mean of the current densities between the first and second baseline neuronal activity signals exhibited by multiple individuals in a patient population, where the baseline neuronal activity signals are measured at first and second cortex areas of interest from the patient population while exhibiting a non-pathological neurological condition.
8. The method of claim 1 , wherein the balanced relation includes a balanced connectivity relation defined at least in part based on functional synchronization between first and second baseline neuronal activity signals of a brain as measured at first and second cortex areas of interest when the brain is exhibiting a non-pathologic neurological condition.
9. The method of claim 1 , further comprising filtering the first and second neuronal activity signals to obtain first and second frequency components of interest, respectively, the determining comprising determining the present relation between the first and second frequency components of interest.
10. The method of claim 1 , further comprising automatically programming stimulation parameters for an implantable pulse generator to deliver the electrical stimulation to the one or more sites from one or more implanted electrodes.
11. The method of claim 1 , wherein the one or more sites where the electrical stimulation is applied corresponds to at least one of the first and second cortex areas of interest.
12. A system for applying electrical stimulation to one or more locations within a brain of a patient, the system comprising:
sensors configured to measure first and second neuronal activity signals of a brain at first and second cortex areas of interest, respectively;
memory to store program instructions;
one or more processors configured to execute the program instructions for:
determining a quantitative relation between the first and second neuronal activity signals;
obtaining a balanced relation that is indicative of a select level of balance between neuronal activity at the first and second cortex areas of interest;
comparing the quantitative relation to the balanced relation to determine whether the quantitative relation is indicative of a presence of a pathological neurological condition; and
applying electrical stimulation to one or more sites in the brain in response to the quantitative relation being indicative of the presence of the pathological neurological condition.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the first and second cortex areas of interest comprise one or more of: a right dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (rdACC), a somatosensory cortex (SSC) and a pregenual anterior cingulate cortex (pgACC).
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the first cortex area of interest represents at least one of the rdACC or SSC, while the second cortex area of interest represents the pgACC.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more sensors include first and second electrodes implanted in intradural or extradural regions.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more processors are configured to determine the determining the quantitative relation by determining at least one of a quantitative activity relation or a quantitative connectivity relation, the quantitative connectivity relation including at least one of functional connectivity relation or an effective connectivity relation.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein the balanced relation includes a balanced activity relation defined at least in part based on a ratio of current density between first and second baseline neuronal activity signals of a brain as measured at first and second cortex areas of interest when the brain is exhibiting a non-pathologic neurological condition.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the balanced activity relation is defined by the ratio of a mean of the current densities between the first and second baseline neuronal activity signals exhibited by multiple individuals in a patient population, where the baseline neuronal activity signals are measured at first and second cortex areas of interest from the patient population while exhibiting a non-pathological neurological condition.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein the balanced relation includes a balanced connectivity relation defined at least in part based on functional synchronization between first and second baseline neuronal activity signals of a brain as measured at first and second cortex areas of interest when the brain is exhibiting a non-pathologic neurological condition.
20. The system of claim 12, further comprising an implantable pulse generator that houses the memory, the implantable pulse generator connected to a lead that includes electrodes representing the sensors.
</claims>
</document>
