<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/00,G06N3/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BROWN UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ARCADIA, CHRISTOPHER
CHEN, SHUI
DOMBROSKI, AMANDA
GEISER, JOSEPH
KENNEDY, EAMONN
KIM, EUNSUK
OAKLEY, KADY
REDA, SHERIEF
ROSE CHRISTOPHER
ROSENSTEIN, JACOB
RUBENSTEIN, BRENDA
SELLO, JASON
TANN, HOKCHHAY
WEBER, PETER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68984331
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS OF CHEMICAL COMPUTATION
</title>

<abstract>
The invention provides methods for computing with chemicals by encoding digital data into a plurality of chemicals to obtain a dataset; translating the dataset into a chemical form; reading the data set; querying the dataset by performing an operation to obtain a perceptron; and analyzing the perceptron for identifying chemical structure and/or concentration of at least one of the chemicals, thereby developing a chemical computational language. The invention demonstrates a workflow for representing abstract data in synthetic metabolomes. Also presented are several demonstrations of kilobyte-scale image data sets stored in synthetic metabolomes, recovered at >99% accuracy.
</abstract>

<claims>
CLAIMS We claim: 1. A method for computing with chemicals, the method comprising the steps of :
(a) encoding an abstract digital data into a plurality of liquid volumes of a
plurality of chemicals to obtain a dataset;
(b) translating the dataset into a chemical form;
(c) creating the data set using spectrometry, spectroscopy, or a combination of both assay methods;
(d) querying the dataset by performing a volumetric operation to obtain a
perceptron; and
(e) analyzing the perceptron for identifying chemical structure, concentration, or another characteristic of at least one of the chemicals,
thereby developing a chemical computational language. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the abstract digital data comprises a binary
computer language. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein translating further comprises assembling a library of chemicals in the dataset. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein volumetric operation is performed robotically. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein volumetric operation further comprises a
programmed standard volumetric transfer. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein, the plurality of liquid volumes of the plurality of chemicals are a mixture of different chemical molecules. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the abstract digital data comprises presence or absence of chemical molecules in the mixture. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein spectrometry comprises mass spectrometry.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein spectroscopy comprises at least one of:
ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy, Rydberg spectroscopy, Infrared spectroscopy, fluorescence spectroscopy, and absorption spectroscopy. 10. A method for molecular computing using a chemical perceptron, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) preparing a plurality of distinct mixtures of molecules to obtain a chemical data set, wherein the mixtures of molecules are an input unit of the perceptron;
(b) writing the data set on an array and applying an operation to the data set for transduction of the input unit;
(c) combining the input unit by an operation to obtain an operation product; and detecting a threshold of the operation product,
thereby obtaining product of the chemical perceptron. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the array is a micro-well plate or a MALDI plate. 12. The method of claim 10 further comprising applying a chemical multiply
accumulate operation to obtain the mathematical equivalent of the perceptron. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the chemical multiply accumulate operation is z = Liwi• xi + b, where z is the output of the multiply accumulate operation, Wi is the weight of a species, xi is the initial amount of the species, and b is the bias. 14. A chemical perceptron comprising: a plurality of analytes; an array spectrum; a fluid handling robot; a computer; and, a molecule quantifier or a molecule identifier. 15. The perceptron of claim 14, wherein the molecule quantifier or molecule identifier is at least one selected from: a high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and a mass spectrometer. 16. The perceptron of claim 14, wherein the array spectrum is at least one selected from a micro-well plate, and a MALDI plate.
17. A method for obtaining an output of a linear classification operation, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) encoding binary data into a chemical composition of a plurality of liquid samples;
(b) receiving an input of binary data;
(c) performing multiplication operation by a plurality of fractional volume
transfers of the liquid samples into a plurality of micro-wells corresponding to the input;
(d) pooling the liquid samples to obtain an output; and
(e) analyzing the concentration of the chemicals in the output by a HPLC, thereby obtaining the output for the linear classification operation. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of scaling a classifier weight corresponding to maximum available volume in the micro-wells. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the classifier weight corresponds to amount of the plurality of fractional volume transfers of the liquid samples. 20. The method of claim 17 further comprising performing the plurality of fractional volume transfers by a robot. 21. The method of claim 17, wherein the liquid samples are nonreactive. 22. The method of claim 17, further comprising performing parallel computing to obtain the output for the linear classification operation. 23. A method for coding information with a mixture of product molecules, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) mapping of a plurality of each pixels on an array corresponding to a plurality of known organic chemical entity molecules each in a known location within the array to obtain a pixel map;
(b) reacting a selected subset of the molecules corresponding to the pixel map thereby synthesizing the mixture of product molecules; and
(c) analyzing the mixture of product molecules to identify the product
molecules.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the reacting step further comprises performing an Ugi reaction to obtain an Ugi product molecule. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising the step of creating a new Ugi product molecule. 26. The method of claim 24, wherein the plurality of known organic chemical entity molecules comprise a chemical scaffold. 27. The method of claim 23, wherein the plurality of known organic chemical entity molecules comprise reaction groups. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the reacting step further comprises substituting the reaction groups. 29. The method of claim 23, wherein the reacting step further comprises changing pH of at least one of the plurality of known organic chemical entity molecules. 30. A method for computing with chemicals, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) encoding digital data into a plurality of chemicals to obtain a dataset and (b) translating the dataset into a chemical form;
(c) reading the data set using spectrometry and/or spectroscopy and querying the dataset by performing an operation to obtain a perceptron; and (d) analyzing the perceptron for identifying chemical structure, concentration, or another characteristic of at least one of the chemicals,
thereby developing a chemical computational language. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the operation further comprises at least one of a volumetric transfer or a chemical reaction. 32. The method of claim 31, further comprising the step of measuring a rate constant and/or an equilibrium constant of the chemical reaction. 33. The method of claim 31, wherein the chemical reaction further comprises an Ugi reaction to obtain at least one Ugi product molecule.
34. The method of claim 30, further comprising the step of synthesizing a new chemical. 35. The method of claim 30, wherein digital data comprises a computer language. 36. The method of claim 30, wherein the plurality of chemicals further comprises a plurality of liquid volumes. 37. The method of claim 30, wherein the plurality of chemicals are a mixture of
different chemical molecules. 38. The method of claim 37, wherein the digital data comprises presence or absence of chemical molecules in the mixture. 39. The method of claim 30, wherein spectrometry comprises mass spectrometry. 40. The method of claim 30, wherein spectroscopy comprises at least one of:
ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy, Rydberg spectroscopy, Infrared spectroscopy, fluorescence spectroscopy, and absorption spectroscopy. 41. The method of claim 30, wherein the plurality of chemicals comprise reaction groups. 42. The method of claim 31, wherein reacting further comprises substituting the reaction groups. 43. The method of claim 30, wherein reacting further comprises changing pH of at least one of the plurality of chemicals. 44. An information storage system, comprising a solid surface with plurality of
addressable locations, wherein each addressable location comprises a mixture of small molecules, and each mixture contains one set of small molecules per addressable location. 45. The information storage system of claim 44, wherein the small molecules are metabolomic elements.
46. The information storage system of claim 44, wherein the solid surface is a MALDI plate. 47. The information storage system of claim 44, wherein the addressable locations comprise at least 1024 independent mixture spots. 48. The information storage system of claim 44, wherein the addressable locations comprise thousands of spatially arrayed nanoliter spots. 49. The information storage system of claim 44, wherein the storage system
comprises more than 100 kbits of data. 50. The information storage system of claim 44, wherein the storage system
comprises a gigabyte of data. 51. A method of storing information in a plurality of metabolomic elements,
comprising the steps of:
(a) converting a format of information into a plurality of digital sequences; (b) converting the plurality of digital sequences into a plurality of
corresponding metabolomic elements using one bit per metabolomic element, and;
(c) storing the plurality of corresponding metabolomic elements on a solid surface, where the location of a metabolomic element is an addressable location. 52. The method of claim 51, wherein the converting the plurality of digital sequences into a plurality of corresponding metabolomic elements Is performed using robotic liquid handling. 53. A method of retrieving a format of information from a plurality of metabolomic elements encoding digital sequences of the format of information, comprising the steps of:
(a) assaying a solid surface comprising a set of metabolomic elements; where the location of a metabolomic element is an addressable location; (b) converting the metabolomic elements to digital sequences; and
(c) converting the digital sequences to a format of information.
54. The method of claim 53, wherein the assay method is mass-spectroscopy. 55. The method of claim 54, wherein the mass-spectroscopy is MALDI mass
spectroscopy. 56. The method of claim 53, wherein the retrieving a format of information from a plurality of metabolomic elements results in an information recovery at >99% accuracy. 57. The method of claim 53, further comprising the step of:
(d) visualizing the format of information. 58. The method of claim 53, further comprising the step of:
(d) mitigating errors in the converting of the metabolomic elements to digital sequences. 59. The method of claim 58, wherein the mitigating errors comprises logistic
regression analysis. 60. The method of claim 53, wherein the converting the digital sequences to a format of information is performed using one m/z peak selected per metabolomic element. 61. The method of claim 53, wherein the converting the digital sequences to a format of information is performed using multiple m/z peaks selected per metabolomic element. 62. A chemical perceptron, comprising the mathematical framework described herein for quantifying chemical memory. 63. The chemical perceptron of claim 62, further comprising autocatalytic
thresholding.
</claims>
</document>
