<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T17/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AUTODESK
</assignee>

<inventors>
BANADYGA, ANDRIY
BARLEY, STEPHEN
DAVIS, MARK
SHAYANI, HOOMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69406144
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES FOR GENERATING STYLIZED QUAD MESHES FROM TRI-MESHES
</title>

<abstract>
In various embodiments, a stylization subsystem automatically modifies a three-dimensional (3D) object design. In operation, the stylization subsystem generates a simplified quad mesh based on an input triangle mesh that represents the 3D object design, a preferred orientation associated with at least a portion of the input triangle mesh, and mesh complexity constraint(s). The stylization subsystem then converts the simplified quad mesh to a simplified T-spline. Subsequently, the stylization subsystem creases one or more of edges included in the simplified T-spline to generate a stylized T-spline. Notably, the stylized T-spline represents a stylized design that is more convergent with the preferred orientation(s) than the 3D object design. Advantageously, relative to prior art approaches, the stylization subsystem can more efficiently modify the 3D object design to improve overall aesthetics and manufacturability.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for automatically modifying a threedimensional (3D) object design, the method comprising:
generating a simplified quad mesh based on an input triangle mesh that
represents the 3D object design, a preferred orientation associated with at least a portion of the input triangle mesh, and at least one mesh complexity constraint;
performing one or more operations to convert the simplified quad mesh to a simplified T-spline; and
performing one or more operations to crease one or more edges included in the simplified T-spline to generate a stylized T-spline, wherein the stylized T-spline represents a stylized design that is more convergent with the preferred orientation than the 3D object design.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 , wherein the preferred orientation is associated with at least one of a machining process, an aesthetic preference, and a style.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 , wherein the input triangle mesh is generated using at least one of a generative design algorithm and a topology optimization algorithm.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 , wherein generating the simplified quad mesh comprises:
generating one or more shape constraints based on the input triangle mesh and the preferred orientation; and
executing a quad mesh generation algorithm based on the input triangle mesh, the one or more shape constraints, and the at least one mesh
complexity constraint.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 , wherein generating the simplified quad mesh comprises:
configuring an objective function based on the preferred orientation; and executing a quad mesh generation algorithm based on the input triangle mesh, the objective function, and the at least one mesh complexity constraint.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 , wherein generating the simplified quad mesh comprises:
generating a simplified skeleton based on the input triangle mesh;
generating one or more shape constraints based on the simplified skeleton and the preferred orientation; and
executing a quad mesh generation algorithm based on the input triangle mesh, the one or more shape constraints, and the at least one mesh
complexity constraint.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 , wherein generating the simplified quad mesh comprises:
generating one or more feature curves based on the input triangle mesh and the preferred orientation, wherein each feature curve comprises a series of triangle edges; and
executing a quad mesh generation algorithm based on the input triangle mesh, the one or more feature curves, and the at least one mesh complexity constraint.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 , wherein performing the one or more operations to convert the simplified quad mesh comprises:
generating an initial T-spline based on the simplified quad mesh; and fitting the initial T-spline with the input triangle mesh to generate the simplified T-spline.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 , wherein performing the one or operations to crease one or more edges comprises:
determining one or more edges included in the simplified T-spline that should be creased based on at least one of a rule, a heuristic, an algorithm, and a trained machine learning model; and
for each edge included in the one or more edges, performing one or more
crease operations on the edge.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 , wherein performing the one or more operations to crease one or more edges comprises:
determining that a first angle associated with a first edge between two quads included in the simplified quad mesh exceeds a creasing threshold; determining that a second edge included in the simplified T-spline corresponds to the first edge; and
performing one or more crease operations on the second edge;
11. One or more non-transitory computer readable media including instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to automatically modify a three-dimensional (3D) object design by performing the steps of:
generating one or more shape constraints based on an input triangle mesh that represents the 3D object design and a preferred orientation associated with at least a portion of the input triangle mesh;
generating a simplified T-spline based on the input triangle mesh, the one or more shape constraints, at least one mesh complexity constraint, and a quad generation algorithm; and
performing one or more operations to crease one or more edges included in the simplified T-spline to generate a stylized T-spline, wherein the stylized T-spline represents a stylized design that is more convergent with the preferred orientation than the 3D object design.
12. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11 , wherein the preferred orientation is associated with a pooling direction that part of a molding manufacturing process or a machining direction that is part of a three-axis subtractive manufacturing process.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11 , wherein the 3D object design includes a least one organic shape.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11 , wherein generating the one or more shape constraints comprises: generating a simplified skeleton based on the input triangle mesh; and determining the one or more shape constraints based on the simplified
skeleton and the preferred orientation.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11 , wherein the one or more shape constraints comprise one or more feature curves and each feature curve comprises a series of triangle edges.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11 , wherein generating the simplified T-spline comprises:
executing the quad mesh generation algorithm based on the input triangle mesh, the one or more shape constraints, and the at least one mesh complexity constraint to generate a simplified quad mesh; and performing one or more operations to convert the simplified quad mesh to the simplified T-spline.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11 , wherein generating the simplified T-spline comprises:
executing the quad mesh generation algorithm based on the input triangle mesh, the one or more shape constraints, and the at least one mesh complexity constraint to generate a simplified quad mesh; performing one or more operations to convert the simplified quad mesh to an initial T-spline; and
fitting the initial T-spline with the input triangle mesh to generate the simplified T-spline.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11 , wherein performing the one or operations to crease one or more edges comprises:
determining one or more edges included in the simplified T-spline that should be creased based on at least one of a rule, a heuristic, an algorithm, and a trained machine learning model; and
for each edge included in the one or more edges, performing one or more crease operations on the edge.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11 , wherein performing the one or more operations to crease one or more edges comprises:
determining that a first angle associated with a first edge included in the
simplified T-spline exceeds a creasing threshold; and
performing one or more crease operation on the first edge.
20. A system for automatically modifying a three-dimensional (3D) object design, the system comprising:
one or more memories storing instructions; and
one or more processors that are coupled to the one or more memories and, when executing the instructions, are configured to:
generate a simplified quad mesh based on an input triangle mesh that represents the 3D object design, a preferred orientation associated with at least a portion of the input triangle mesh, and at least one mesh complexity constraint;
perform one or more operations to convert the simplified quad mesh to a simplified T-spline; and
perform one or more operations to crease one or more edges included in the simplified T-spline to generate a stylized T-spline, wherein the stylized T-spline represents a stylized design that is more convergent with the preferred orientation than the 3D object design.
</claims>
</document>
