<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E02F9/24,E02F9/26,E02F9/28,G01K3/08,G01K3/10,G01K7/00,G05B19/4065,G05B19/4068
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ESCO GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
CARPENTER, CHRISTOPHER
COWGILL, NOAH
HYDE, STEVEN
BETOURNAY, Jason
ANDERTON, John
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73744537
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MONITORING GROUND ENGAGING PRODUCTS
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus and methods for detecting a characteristic of a ground engaging product on earth working equipment are described. The apparatus is operable to: measure a temperature profile at a ground engaging product location; compare the measured temperature profile with an expected temperature profile for that ground engaging product; and indicate a characteristic of the ground engaging product based on the comparison. Thermal inserts for use with ground engaging products on earth working equipment are also described.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Apparatus for monitoring a ground engaging product on earth working equipment, the apparatus being operable to:
measure a temperature profile at a ground engaging product location; compare the measured temperature profile with an expected temperature profile for that ground engaging product; and
indicate a characteristic of the ground engaging product based on the comparison.
2. Apparatus according to claim 1 , wherein the apparatus measures the temperature profile using a device from a group consisting of a thermal imaging camera, an infrared sensor, a scanning laser beam, and an infrared sensor.
3. Apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the apparatus compares the measured temperature profile with an expected temperature profile by accessing stored measurements relating to expected use of the ground engaging product.
4. Apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the apparatus compares the measured temperature profile with an expected temperature profile by identifying a presence or absence of a temperature change between adjacent locations on the ground engaging product.
5. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the apparatus includes a high definition camera to capture an image of the ground engaging product for use in creating an outline of the ground engaging product onto which a thermal image from the thermal image camera(s) may be mapped.
6. Apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the apparatus creates a difference profile as a result of the comparison.
7. Apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the characteristic comprises absence of the ground engaging product.
8. Apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the characteristic comprises excessive wear of the ground engaging product.
9. A method of ascertaining a characteristic of a ground engaging product on earth working equipment, the method comprising the steps of: (i) measuring a temperature at a plurality of different locations on or near the earth working equipment, including at least one location on the ground engaging product; (ii) identifying presence or absence of areas of temperature contrast near a location of an expected thermal insert; and (iii) indicating a characteristic of the ground engaging product based on the identified areas.
10. A method according to claim 9, further comprising using the measured temperatures to create a thermal map of at least part of the ground engaging product.
1 1. A method according to claim 9 or 10, wherein identifying presence or absence of areas of temperature contrast near a location of an expected thermal insert includes using one or more markers or other indicators to align with areas of expected temperature contrast.
12. A method according to claim 1 1 , wherein the one or more markers or other indicators are overlaid on a thermal map to highlight areas of expected temperature contrast.
13. A method according to any of claims 9 to 12, wherein indicating a characteristic of the ground engaging product based on the identified areas includes classifying an amount of wear on the ground engaging product into a plurality of categories.
14. A method according to claim 13, further comprising generating an alert when the wear exceeds a defined classification level.
15. A thermal insert for use with a ground engaging product to create a temperature contrast therein, the thermal insert comprising:
a target area and having first thermal properties; and
a mount extending from a lower part of the target area for insertion into the ground engaging product.
16. A thermal insert according to claim 15, wherein the target area includes an outer surface, and the thermal insert comprises an insulating layer surrounding an edge of the target area or an edge of the mount.
17. A thermal insert according to claim 15 or 16, wherein the thermal insert further comprises a power source and a controller.
18. A thermal insert according to claim 17, wherein the thermal insert further comprises a thermal unit for heating or cooling part or all of the thermal insert.
19. A thermal insert according to claim 17 or 18, wherein the thermal insert further comprises a thermal emitter for emitting a known signal for use in locating or calibrating the thermal insert.
20. A thermal insert according to any of claims 17 to 19, wherein the thermal insert further comprises an accelerometer operable to detect movement of the ground engaging product.
21. A thermal insert according to any of claims 17 to 20, wherein the thermal insert further comprises a transceiver for supporting wireless communications with remote devices.
22. A thermal insert according to any of claims 17 to 21 , wherein the thermal insert further comprises a temperature sensor for measuring a temperature at or near the thermal insert.
23. A thermal insert according to any of claims 17 to 22, wherein the power source is rechargeable and the thermal insert further comprises a charging unit.
24. A ground engaging product comprising an exterior surface and a thermal insert partly located within the exterior surface, and providing an externally visible outer surface, where the outer surface has a thermal conductivity differing from a thermal conductivity of the exterior surface.
25. A ground engaging product according to claim 24, wherein the thermal insert includes a thermally insulated layer surrounding a side and a lower surface of the outer surface thereby reducing thermal transfer between the outer surface and other parts of the thermal insert and surrounding areas of the ground engaging product.
26. A lock for holding a portion of a ground engaging product in place on earth working equipment, the lock comprising:
an exterior surface having lateral engaging formations for engaging with complementary formations in the ground engaging product;
an outer surface including at least one insert having first thermal properties differing from thermal properties of areas around the insert.
27. Monitoring apparatus for detecting a characteristic of a ground engaging product on earth working equipment, the monitoring apparatus comprising:
a thermal detector operable to measure a temperature at a plurality of different locations on or near the earth working equipment, including at least one location on the ground engaging product; and
a processor operable to (i) identify presence or absence of areas of temperature contrast near a location of an expected thermal insert, and (ii) identify a characteristic of the ground engaging product based on the identified areas.
28. Monitoring apparatus according to claim 27, further comprising a plurality of thermal detectors, each coupled to the processor.
29. Monitoring apparatus according to claim 28, wherein a plurality of the thermal detectors are directed at different parts of the ground engaging product.
30. A method for validating installation of parts of a ground engaging product set, the method comprising:
capturing a thermal image of the ground engaging product set;
identifying individual ground engaging products comprising the set;
comparing the identified ground engaging products with an expected set of ground engaging products; and
reporting a match result based on the comparison.
31. A method according to claim 30, wherein the match result comprises a successful match, indicating that the expected ground engaging product set matches the identified ground engaging products; or a failed match, indicating that the expected ground engaging product set does not match the identified ground engaging products.
32. A method according to claim 31 , wherein the method includes, in the event of a failed match, indicating what ground engaging products from the expected set have not been detected.
33. A method according to claim 31 , wherein the method includes, in the event of a successful match, transmitting an indication of the successful match to a remote device.
34. A method according to claim 33, wherein the method further includes closing an open ticket relating to installation of the ground engaging product set in response to receipt of the successful match notification.
35. An unmanned aerial vehicle including monitoring apparatus according to any of claims 1 to 8 or 27 to 29, and being operable to fly above earth working equipment to provide the monitoring apparatus with a line of sight view of ground engaging products to be monitored.
36. Monitoring apparatus for detecting a characteristic of a ground engaging product on earth working equipment, the monitoring apparatus comprising:
a thermal detector operable to measure a temperature at a plurality of different locations on or near the earth working equipment, including at least one location on the ground engaging product, and
a processor operable to identify presence or absence of areas of temperature contrast near or at a location of the ground engaging product to identify a characteristic of the ground engaging product based on the identified areas.
37. Monitoring apparatus according to claim 36, wherein the processor is further operable to identify presence or absence of areas of temperature contrast by comparing measurements of a current thermal image of the ground engaging product with measurements of a previously recorded thermal image of the ground engaging product, and detecting any reduction in size of part of the ground engaging product.
38. Monitoring apparatus according to claim 36 or 37, wherein the monitoring apparatus comprises a plurality of thermal detectors, each thermal detector being coupled to the processor, and directed towards different parts of the ground engaging product.
39. A method of ascertaining a characteristic of ground engaging products on earth working equipment, the method comprising the steps of:
(i) measuring a temperature at a plurality of different ground engaging products on the earth working equipment over a period of time to create a temperature profile for each ground engaging product;
(ii) comparing the temperature profiles to identify an elevated temperature profile compared with at least one other temperature profile; and
(iii) indicating a potential high wear area corresponding to the ground engaging product having the elevated temperature profile.
40. A method according to claim 39, further comprising the step of generating an alert when the potential high wear area meets a defined criterion, wherein the defined criterion includes significant wear or absence of part or all of one of the ground engaging products.
41. A method of ascertaining strain on a lip secured to a bucket due to unbalanced loads, the method comprising the steps of:
(i) measuring a temperature at a plurality of different ground engaging products on the lip over a period of time to create a temperature profile for each ground engaging product;
(ii) comparing the temperature profiles to identify an elevated temperature profile compared with at least one other temperature profile; and
(iii) indicating potential strain on the lip at an area where the ground engaging product having the elevated temperature profile is secured.
42. A method according to claim 41 , wherein the step of comparing the temperature profiles to identify an elevated temperature profile compared with at least one other temperature profile includes identifying rising temperature profiles of the ground engaging products towards one side of the lip.
43. Apparatus for monitoring a ground engaging product, the apparatus comprising a thermal sensor external to the ground engaging product and being operable to measure a temperature at the ground engaging product; and a processor operable to: (i) compare the measured temperature with an expected temperature for that ground engaging product, and (ii) indicate a characteristic of the ground engaging product based on the comparison.
</claims>
</document>
