<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/021,A61B5/024,A61B5/107,A61B5/145,A61B5/1495
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS
WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABUJRIDA, HAMZA
DUNN, RAYMOND
MCNEILL, JOHN
MENDELSON YITZHAK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59351050
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PREVENTION OF PRESSURE ULCERS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, devices, and methods of the present application relate to the diagnostic measurement of condition for pressure ulcers. Preferred embodiments utilize pressure measurements at body locations to determine a diagnostic pressure ulcer value. A pressure sensor device generates patient pressure data that is processed by a data processor which utilizes a diagnostic function to determine the diagnostic value that indicates whether corrective action is needed to prevent pressure ulcer formation. One or more sensor devices can be attached to a patient to measure to transmit data for further processing.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A pressure ulcer monitoring system comprising:
a sensor device including a pressure sensor that measures pressure at a tissue surface location on a patient;
a memory that stores patient variables including the location of the pressure sensor on the patient;
a data processor that receives pressure data from the pressure sensor, the data processor computing a pressure value during one or more time periods and, based on the computed pressure value and the location of the sensor device on the patient, compute a pressure ulcer diagnostic function value; and
wherein a pressure ulcer diagnostic function for the patient is generated at least in part in response to a machine learning operation.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the data processor is mounted on a flexible circuit board within the sensor device and utilizes a machine learning module that receives patient data from a patient and applies a diagnostic function such that the data processor determines the pressure ulcer diagnostic value with the diagnostic function.
3. The system of any one of claims 1 and 2 wherein the diagnostic function is a function of a plurality of weighted patient variables, and wherein the weighted patient variables include one or more of an age of the patient, a medication of the patient, a body mass of the patient, a blood oxygenation level of the patient and a blood pressure of the patient.
4. The system of any one or more of claims 1-3 wherein the machine learning operation includes ensemble of decision trees.
5. The system of claim 4 wherein the ensemble comprises a random forest.
6. The system of claim 4 wherein the ensemble comprises a bagged plurality of decision trees.
7. The system of any one or more of claims 4-6 wherein an output of each of a plurality of decision trees is processed with an averaging function.
8. The system of any one or more of claims 1-3 wherein the machine learning operation comprises a boosting algorithm.
9. The system of any one or more of claims 1-3 wherein the machine learning operation processes a plurality of patient variables each comprising a weak classifier.
10. The system of any one or more of claims 1-3 wherein the machine learning operation comprises neural network processing.
11. The system of any one or more of claims 1 -3 wherein the machine learning operation comprises support vector machine processing.
12. The system of any one or more of claims 1-3 wherein the machine learning operation comprises a Bayesian network model processing.
13. The system of any one or more of claims 1-12 wherein the data processor is connected to a non-volatile memory have stored therein a neural network that receives patient data from a patient and generates the diagnostic function such that the data processor determines the pressure ulcer diagnostic value with the diagnostic function.
14. The system of any one or more claims 1-13 wherein the monitoring system comprises a conformable patch having a uniform thickness, the patch being attachable to a body location on a patient, the patch including the sensor device, data processor, a power source, a wireless transmitter and an adhesive that attaches the patch to the tissue surface.
15. The system of any one or more of claims 1-14 wherein a uniform thickness of a first conformable patch is less than 4 mm.
16. The system of any one or more of claims 1-15 further comprising a second sensor device including a second pressure sensor that measures pressure at a second tissue surface on the patient.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the first sensor device and the second sensor device are communicatively coupled to a computing device of a mobile communications device.
18. The system of any one or more of claims 1-17, wherein the pressure sensor comprises an array of pressure-sensitive areas.
19. The system of any one or more of claims 1-18, wherein the sensor device comprises a cover and the pressure sensor comprises a polymer thick-film device or a capacitive sensor.
20. The system of any one or more of claims 1-19, wherein the data processor filters at least one of the pressure data and the patient data to eliminate anomalous data or noise.
21. The system of claim 1 , wherein the sensor device further comprises a moisture sensor.
22. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor device further comprises a temperature sensor.
23. The system of claim 1 , wherein the sensor device further comprises a light source and a light sensor.
24. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor device is water resistant.
25. The system of any one or more of claims 1-24, wherein the sensor device has a surface area of less than 4 cm .
26. The system of any one or more of claims 1-25, wherein the sensor device has a surface area that is configured with a selected radius of curvature in at least one direction such that the sensor device conforms to a specific surface area of the patient.
27. The system of any one or more of claims 1-26 further comprising a mobile wireless device commercially connected to the sensor device.
28. The system of claim 27 wherein the mobile wireless device comprises one or more external devices selected from a group comprising a tablet, a mobile phone or a networked computer.
29. The system of any one or more of claims 1-28 wherein the data processor is connected to a second processor that is mounted with the sensor device or mounted in an external device, the data processor performing a first machine learning operation and the second processor performing a second machine learning operation.
30. A method of determining a pressure ulcer condition of a patient comprising:
acquiring patient data to determine a pressure ulcer condition of a patient;
processing, with a data processor, a pressure ulcer diagnostic function of the patient using the patient data wherein the pressure ulcer diagnostic function is based at least in part on a machine learning output;
detecting pressure data with a sensor device having a pressure sensor at a tissue surface location on the patient; and
computing a diagnostic value using the measured pressure data and the diagnostic function.
31. The method of claim 30 further comprising attaching a first conformable patch at the location on the patient, the patch comprising the sensor device and a flexible circuit device connected to the pressure sensor.
32. The method of any one or more of claims 30 and 31 , further comprising
attaching a first conformable patch at the location on the patient, the first conformable patch comprising the sensor device; and attaching a second conformable patch at a second location relative to the location of the first conformable patch, the second conformable patch comprising a flexible circuit device including a wireless transmitter, the flexible circuit device communicatively coupled to the pressure sensor.
33. The method of any one or more of claims 30-32, wherein a distance between patches once attached at respective locations is less than 15 centimeters.
34. The method of any one or more of claims 30-32, wherein the flexible circuit device is communicatively coupled to the pressure sensor through a wireless connection.
35. The method of any one or more of claims 31-34, wherein the flexible circuit device is communicatively coupled to the pressure sensor through a wired connection.
36. The method of claim 31 , wherein the first conformable patch has a uniform thickness that is less than 4 mm or less than 2 mm.
37. The method of claim 31, wherein the uniform thickness is less than 3 mm.
38. The method of any one or more of claims 30-37, further comprising transmitting sensor data to an external wireless device having a second data processor that performs a machine learning operation and transmits an output to the sensor device.
39. The method of claim 30, further comprising detecting pressure data with a second sensor device having a second pressure sensor at a second tissue surface location on the patient.
40. The method of claim 39, wherein the first sensor device and the second sensor device are communicatively coupled to a computing device or a mobile communications device.
41. The method of claim 30, further comprising displaying at least one of the pressure data or the diagnostic value on a display of a computing device or mobile communications device such as a tablet or mobile phone.
42. The method of claim 30, wherein detecting pressure data with a sensor device having a pressure sensor includes detecting pressure data from an array of pressure-sensitive areas or pressure elements of the pressure sensor.
43. The method of claim 30, further comprising sending or receiving communications to or from a computing device using an antenna of the sensor device and wherein the pressure sensor comprises a polymer thick-film device or a capacitive sensor.
44. The method of claim 30, further comprising detecting relative humidity data with a moisture sensor of the sensor device.
45. The method of claim 30, further comprising detecting temperature data using a temperature sensor of the sensor device.
46. The method of claim 30, further comprising detecting colorimetric data using a light source and a light sensor of the sensor device or detecting bioimpedance data.
47. The method of any of claims 30-46 wherein a plurality of analytic features is applied to the data.
48. The method of claim 47 wherein one or more analytic features is selected from the group comprising skewness, difference of maximum and minimum root mean square, kurtosis, standard deviation, harmonic ratio of spectral band peaks, signal to noise ratio, harmonic distortion, peak frequency, spectral centroid, bandwidth and moment.
49. The method of any one or more of claims 1-48 operates on a system as recited in any of claims 1-29.
50. A method of determining a pressure ulcer condition of a patient comprising: acquiring patient data with a pressure ulcer monitoring system, the system including a machine learning module;
generating, with a data processor, a pressure ulcer diagnostic function of the patient using the patient data and a learning module output;
detecting pressure data with a sensor device having a pressure sensor at a tissue surface location on the patient; and
computing a diagnostic value using the measured pressure data and the diagnostic function.
51. The method of claim 50 further comprising attaching a first conformable patch at a location on the patient, the patch comprising the sensor device and at least one of a temperature sensor, a humidity sensor and a bioimpedance sensor and a flexible circuit device connected to the sensor device, the flexible circuit device including a wireless transmitter.
52. The method of any one of claims 50 and 51 wherein the machine learning module comprises a support vector machine, a neural network or a Bayesian network.
53. The method of claim 50 or 51 wherein the machine learning module comprises or more decision trees based on an age of the patient, a medication of the patient, a location of the sensor on the patient and a blood pressure of the patient.
54. The method of any one or more of claims 50-53 further comprising sensing one or more of a temperature, a humidity and an orientation at the sensor location.
55. The method of any one or more of claims 50, 51, 53 and 54 wherein the learning module operates a bagged tree program or a random forest program.
56. The method of claim 50 wherein the learning module comprises a boosting algorithm.
57. The method of claim 50 wherein the learning module processes a plurality of weak classifiers.
58. The method of any one or more of claims 30-57 wherein the pressure sensor generates data and processing the data with a machine learning module having one or more analytic features to compute one or more metrics.
59. The method of any one or more of claims 30-58 wherein the learning module segments the sensed data, selects one or more features and ranks a metric value for the one or more features, and classifies an output of the module.
60. The method of any of claims 30-59 wherein the method operates on the sensor device including a battery, an antenna, and a wireless transceiver.
</claims>
</document>
