<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B17/16,A61B90/98
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRYKER CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHARMA, RAHUL
CARUSILLO, STEVEN
LAMBERT, TREVOR JONATHAN
SCHNEIDER, BRENDAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71016648
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POWERED SURGICAL DRILL HAVING ROTATING FIELD BIT IDENTIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
A surgical drill system includes a surgical drill and a drill bit assembly having an identification feature sensed by the surgical drill to identify the drill bit assembly when the drill bit assembly is coupled to the surgical drill. The identification feature may be a magnet that becomes at least partially demagnetized when heated above a certain temperature which may be included in a non-magnetic sleeve surrounding the drill bit assembly that melts if heated above its melting point. The surgical drill may include a measurement module having a measurement cannula, with a sensor included on the surgical drill that senses the magnetic field through the measurement cannula to identify the coupled drill bit assembly. The surgical drill may also have a controller configured for controlling the operation of the coupled drill bit assembly based on the identified drill bit assembly.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A drill bit for use on a surgical drill, the drill bit comprising:
a shank extending between a proximal end and a distal end along an axis;
a cutting tip portion adjacent to the distal end of the shank; and
an identification feature disposed about the shank for identifying a configuration of the cutting tip portion, the identification feature comprising a magnetic material configured for generating a magnetic field, the magnetic material configured to become at least partially demagnetized when heated to a temperature at or above 80 degrees Celsius.
2. The drill bit of claim 1 , further comprising a sleeve disposed about at least a portion of the shank, the sleeve comprising a non-magnetic material.
3. The drill bit of claim 2, wherein the sleeve comprises the identification feature, with the magnetic material being dispersed in the non-magnetic material.
4. The drill bit of claim 3, wherein the magnetic material is uniformly dispersed in the non-magnetic material.
5. The drill bit of any one of claims 2-4, wherein the magnetic material comprises a first magnet and a second magnet, wherein the first magnet and second magnet are coupled to the sleeve.
6. The drill bit of any one of claims 2-5, wherein the magnetic material comprises an array of magnets disposed circumferentially about the shank.
7. The drill bit of claim 6, wherein at least one magnet of the array of magnets is different in size, strength, polarity, angular spacing, or combinations thereof than at least one other magnet of the array of magnets.
8. The drill bit of claim 6 or 7, wherein angular spacing between a first magnet of the array of magnets and a second magnet of the array of magnets is the same as angular spacing between the second magnet and a third magnet of the array of magnets.
9. The drill bit of any one of claims 6-7, wherein angular spacing between a first magnet of the array of magnets and a second magnet of the array of magnets is different than angular spacing between the second magnet and a third magnet of the array of magnets.
10. The drill bit of any one of claims 6, 7, 8, or 9, wherein a size of a first magnet of the array of magnets is greater than a size of a second magnet of the array of magnets.
11. The drill bit of any one of claims 6-10, wherein a strength of a first magnet of the array of magnets is greater than a strength of a second magnet of the array of magnets.
12. The drill bit of any one of claims 6-11, wherein the array of magnets is further defined as a first array of magnets, and wherein the magnetic material comprises a second array of magnets disposed circumferentially about the shank and disposed axially spaced from the first array of magnets.
13. The drill bit of claim 12, wherein each of the first array of magnets and the second array of magnets comprises the same number of magnets.
14. The drill bit of claim 12 or 13, wherein at least one magnet of the first array of magnets is angularly aligned with a magnet in the second array of magnets in a direction parallel to the axis of the shank.
15. The drill bit of any one of claims 12-14, wherein at least one magnet in the first array of magnets is not angularly aligned with any of the magnets in the second array of magnets in a direction parallel to the axis of the shank.
16. A drill bit for use on a surgical drill, the drill bit comprising:
a shank extending between a proximal end and a distal end along an axis;
a cutting tip portion adjacent to the distal end of the shank;
a sleeve disposed about at least a portion of the shank, the sleeve comprising a non magnetic material having a glass transition temperature at or below 120 degrees Celsius, and the sleeve comprising an identification feature for identifying a configuration of the cutting tip portion, the identification feature comprising a magnetic material.
17. The drill bit of claim 16, wherein the magnetic material is dispersed in the non magnetic material.
18. The drill bit of claim 16 or 17, wherein the magnetic material is uniformly dispersed in the non-magnetic material.
19. The drill bit of claim 16, wherein the magnetic material comprises an array of magnets disposed circumferentially about the shank.
20. The drill bit of claim 19, wherein at least one magnet of the array of magnets is different in size, strength, polarity, angular spacing, or combinations thereof than at least one other magnet of the array of magnets.
21. The drill bit of claim 19 or 20, wherein angular spacing between a first magnet of the array of magnets and a second magnet of the array of magnets is the same as angular spacing between the second magnet and a third magnet of the array of magnets.
22. The drill bit of any one of claims 19-21, wherein angular spacing between a first magnet of the array of magnets and a second magnet of the array of magnets is different than angular spacing between the second magnet and a third magnet of the array of magnets.
23. The drill bit of any one of claims 19-22, wherein a size of a first magnet of the array of magnets is greater than a size of a second magnet of the array of magnets.
24. The drill bit of any one of claims 19-23, wherein a strength of a first magnet of the array of magnets is greater than a strength of a second magnet of the array of magnets.
25. The drill bit of any one of claims 19-24, wherein the array of magnets is further defined as a first array of magnets, and wherein the magnetic material comprises a second array of magnets disposed circumferentially about the shank and disposed axially spaced from the first array of magnets.
26. The drill bit of claim 25, wherein each of the first array of magnets and the second array of magnets comprises the same number of magnets.
27. The drill bit of claim 25 or 26, wherein at least one magnet of the first array of magnets is angularly aligned with a magnet in the second array of magnets in a direction parallel to the axis of the shank.
28. The drill bit of any one of claims 25-27, wherein at least one magnet in the first array of magnets is not angularly aligned with any of the magnets in the second array of magnets in a direction parallel to the axis of the shank.
29. The drill bit of any one of claims 16-28, wherein the magnetic material of the sleeve becomes at least partially demagnetized when heated to a temperature at or above 80 degrees Celsius.
30. The drill bit of any one of claims 16-29, wherein the sleeve defines a lumen sized to be disposed over the shank of the drill bit.
31. A drill bit assembly for use on a surgical drill, the drill bit assembly comprising: a shank extending between a proximal end and a distal end along an axis;
a cutting tip portion adjacent to the distal end of the shank; and a sleeve disposed about at least a portion of the shank, the sleeve comprising a non magnetic material;
the sleeve comprising an identification feature for identifying a configuration of the cutting tip portion, the identification feature comprising a magnetic material, wherein the magnetic material is dispersed in the non-magnetic material.
32. The drill bit assembly of claim 31, wherein the sleeve defines a lumen sized to be disposed over the shank of the drill bit assembly.
33. The drill bit assembly of claim 31 or 32, wherein the magnetic material is uniformly dispersed in the non-magnetic material.
34. The drill bit assembly of any one of claims 31-33, wherein the magnetic material becomes least partially demagnetized when heated to a temperature at or above 80 degrees Celsius.
35. The drill bit assembly of any one of claims 31-34, wherein the magnetic material comprises solid particles or flakes.
36. The drill bit assembly of any one of claims 31-35, wherein a shape of a magnetic field generated by the sleeve is asymmetrical about the axis of the shank.
37. The drill bit assembly of any one of claim 31-35, wherein a shape of a magnetic field generated by the sleeve is asymmetrical along the axis of the shank.
38. The drill bit assembly of any one of claims 31-36, wherein the sleeve is divided into a first quadrant, a second quadrant, a third quadrant, and a fourth quadrant about the axis, and wherein a magnetic field generated by the first quadrant is different from the second quadrant, the third quadrant, and/or the fourth quadrant in terms of size, strength, polarity, or combinations thereof.
39. A surgical handpiece system for use with a drill bit having an identification feature that includes a magnetic material, the surgical handpiece system comprising:
a handpiece for coupling and transferring torque to a drill bit to rotate the drill bit about an axis;
a measurement module configured to be coupled to the handpiece, the measurement module comprising:
a housing, and
a measurement cannula comprising a non-magnetic material, the measurement cannula configured to circumferentially surround the drill bit when the drill bit is coupled to the handpiece, and the measurement cannula being slidably mounted to the housing so as to extend forward or rearward relative to the housing between a fully distal position and a proximal position, the measurement cannula having a distal end adapted for placement against a workpiece;
a transducer assembly for generating a transducer signal based on a position of the distal end of the measurement cannula relative to the housing; and
a sensor for generating an identification signal responsive to a magnetic field or magnetoresistance of the identification feature of the drill bit through the measurement cannula when the drill bit is coupled to the handpiece and rotating about the axis.
40. The surgical handpiece system of claim 39, further comprising a controller configured to receive the identification signal and identify the coupled drill bit corresponding to the received identification signal.
41. The surgical handpiece system of claim 40, wherein the controller is configured for receiving the generated transducer signal and controlling a relative amount of torque transferring to the drill bit on the basis of the received transducer signal and the identification signal.
42. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 39-41, wherein the controller comprises a microprocessor having a memory unit, the memory unit including a list of known identification signals, with each respective one of the known identification signals of the list corresponding to a respective one known drill bit, the microprocessor configured for identifying the coupled drill bit by comparing the received identification signal to the list of known identification signals.
43. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 39-42, wherein the identification signals differ from one another based on size, polarity, angular spacing, strength, or combinations thereof.
44. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 39-43, wherein the sensor is disposed within the housing of the measurement module.
45. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 39-44, wherein the measurement module further comprises a guide bushing circumferentially surrounding the measurement cannula, the guide bushing defining a window, with the transducer assembly being coupled to the measurement cannula through the window.
46. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 39-45, wherein the sensor is disposed within a body of the handpiece.
47. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 39-46 wherein the sensor is disposed in a body of the handpiece such that the measurement cannula is disposed between the sensor and the identification feature in a direction normal to the axis in the proximal position and such that the measurement cannula is not disposed between the sensor and the identification feature in the direction normal to the axis in the fully distal position.
48. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 39-47, wherein the non magnetic material comprises a polymeric material.
49. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 41-48, wherein the controller is disposed in the measurement module.
50. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 40-49, wherein the controller is further defined as a first controller, and wherein the surgical handpiece system comprises a second controller, the first controller disposed in the measurement module and the second controller disposed in the handpiece, and the handpiece further comprising a motor for generating torque, the second controller configured for controlling a relative amount of torque generated by the motor on the basis of the transducer signal and the identification signal.
51. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 39-49, wherein the measurement module is integral with the handpiece.
52. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 39-49, wherein the measurement module is removable from the handpiece.
53. A surgical handpiece system for determining a breakthrough depth of a drilling passage and configured for use with a drill bit having an identification feature, the surgical handpiece system comprising:
a handpiece comprising a handpiece body for coupling and transferring torque to the drill bit;
a measurement module coupled to the handpiece body, the measurement module comprising,
a housing coupled to the handpiece body, and
a depth measurement extension being slidably mounted to the housing so as to extend forward or rearward relative to the housing along an axis between a fully distal position and a proximal position;
a transducer assembly for generating a transducer signal based on a position of a distal end of the depth measurement extension relative to the housing;
a sensor for generating an identification signal based on the identification feature of the drill bit when the drill bit is coupled to the handpiece body; and
a controller configured to receive the transducer signal and the identification signal and to determine the breakthrough depth of the drilling passage based on receipt of the generated transducer signal and the generated identification signal.
54. The surgical handpiece system of claim 53, wherein the transducer signal is responsive to a linear displacement of the depth measurement extension relative to an initial displacement position during use.
55. The surgical handpiece system of claim 54, wherein the breakthrough depth is based on acceleration as determined by the change in the transducer signal over time.
56. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 53-55, wherein the measurement module comprises a housing and wherein the depth measurement extension comprises a measurement cannula configured to circumferentially surround a portion of the drill bit when the drill bit is coupled to the handpiece body.
57. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 53-56, wherein the sensor is located within the measurement module.
58. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 53-56, wherein the sensor is located within the handpiece body.
59. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 53-58, wherein the sensor is selected from the group consisting of an optical sensor, a magnetic field sensor, a hall effect sensor, and a magnetoresistance sensor.
60. The surgical handpiece system of any of claims 53-59, wherein the transducer assembly comprises at least one sensor selected from the group consisting of a potentiometer, an optical sensor, and a linear variable displacement transformer.
61. The surgical handpiece system of claim 56, wherein the sensor is positioned in the handpiece body such that the measurement cannula is disposed between the sensor and the identification feature in a direction normal to the axis in the proximal position and such that the measurement cannula is not disposed between the sensor and the identification feature in the direction normal to the axis in the fully distal position.
62. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 53-61, wherein the controller is disposed in the measurement module.
63. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 53-62, wherein the controller is further defined as a first controller, and wherein the handpiece comprises a second controller coupled to the handpiece body, and wherein the first controller is disposed in the measurement module, and wherein the handpiece further comprises a motor, and wherein the second controller is configured for controlling a relative amount of torque generated by the motor on the basis of the transducer signal and the identification signal.
64. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 53-61, wherein the measurement module is integral with the handpiece.
65. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 53-63, wherein the measurement module is removable from the handpiece.
66. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 53-65, wherein the controller comprises a microprocessor having a memory unit, the memory unit including a list of known identification signals, with each respective one of the known identification signals of the list corresponding to a respective one known drill bit, the microprocessor configured for identifying the drill bit by comparing the received identification signal to the list of known identification signals when the drill bit is coupled to the handpiece.
67. The surgical handpiece system of claim 66, wherein the identification signal corresponds to one or more performance features of each respective one of the known drill bits, the performance features selected from a length, a material, a diameter, a cross-sectional area, a type, a cutting efficiency, a rake angle, a flute angle, a point angle and combinations thereof.
68. The surgical handpiece system of any one of claims 53-67, further comprising a first drill bit and a second drill bit, with the first drill bit different from the second drill bit in at least one performance feature, the first drill bit including a first identification feature and the second drill bit including a second identification feature, the first identification feature being different from the second identification feature.
69. A surgical drill bit system comprising:
a first drill bit comprising,
a first shank extending between a proximal end and a distal end along a first axis; a first cutting tip portion adjacent the distal end of the first shank having a first cutting configuration, and
a first sleeve at least partially surrounding the first shank, the first sleeve comprising a first configuration of magnetic material disposed about the first shank, and the first configuration of magnetic material having a first programming for identifying the first cutting configuration of the first cutting tip portion;
a second drill bit comprising,
a second shank extending between a proximal end and a distal end along a second axis;
a second cutting tip portion adjacent the distal end of the second shank having a second cutting configuration different from the first cutting configuration, and
a second sleeve at least partially surrounding the second shank, the second sleeve comprising a second configuration of magnetic material identical to the first configuration of magnetic material disposed about the second shank, and the second configuration of magnetic material having a second programming different from the first programming for identifying the second cutting configuration of the second cutting tip portion.
70. The surgical drill bit system of claim 69, wherein the first sleeve and the second sleeve each comprise a non-magnetic material having a glass transition temperature at or below 120 degrees Celsius.
71. The surgical drill bit system of claim 69 or 70, wherein the first sleeve and the second sleeve each comprise a non-magnetic material.
72. The surgical drill bit system of claim 71, wherein the first and second configurations of magnetic material are dispersed in the non-magnetic material in both the first and second sleeves.
73. The surgical drill bit system of claim 71 or 72, wherein the first and second configurations of magnetic material are uniformly dispersed in the non-magnetic material in both the first and second sleeves.
74. The surgical drill bit system of any one of claims 71-73, wherein the first configuration of magnetic material comprises a first array of magnets disposed circumferentially about the first shank and a second array of magnets disposed circumferentially about the first shank and disposed axially spaced from the first array of magnets.
75. The surgical drill bit system of any one of claims 70-74, wherein the first programming of the first configuration of magnetic material emits a first magnetic field, and wherein the second programming of the second configuration of magnetic material emits a second magnetic field different from the first magnetic field.
76. The surgical drill bit system of any one of claims 70-75, wherein the first magnetic field is different from the second magnetic field in one of a strength, a polarity, or combinations thereof.
77. The surgical drill bit system of any one of claims 70-76, wherein the first and second configurations of magnetic material become at least partially demagnetized when heated to a temperature at or above 80 degrees Celsius.
78. The surgical drill bit system of claim 70, wherein the first sleeve defines a lumen sized to be disposed over the first shank of the first drill bit.
79. The surgical drill bit system of any one of claims 70-78, wherein the first cutting configuration differs from the second cutting configuration in at least one performance feature selected from the group consisting of a length, a material, a diameter, a cross-sectional area, a type, a cutting efficiency, a rake angle, a flute angle, a point angle and combinations thereof.
80. A method of programming a system of surgical drill bits, the method comprising: providing a first drill bit and a second drill bit, with the first drill bit different from the second drill bit in at least one performance feature, the first drill bit having a first sleeve including a first configuration of magnetic material, the second drill bit having a second sleeve including a second configuration of magnetic material identical to the first configuration of magnetic material; programming the first configuration of magnetic material with a first magnetic programming sequence; and
programming the second configuration of magnetic material with a second magnetic programming sequence different from the first magnetic programming sequence such that the second configuration of magnetic material emits a different magnetic field than the first configuration of magnetic material.
81. The method of claim 80, wherein the first magnetic programming sequence differs from the second programming sequence in at least one programming parameter selected from the group of a pulse frequency, a phase offset, a strength of magnetic field, a speed of relative rotation of the sleeve, a polarity, and combinations thereof.
82. The method of claim 80 or 81, further comprising rotating the first sleeve during at least part of the step of programming the first configuration of magnetic material.
83. A surgical handpiece system to determine a suitable screw length for bone fixation with a bone plate that compensates an initial displacement value, the surgical handpiece system comprising:
a handpiece; a drill bit configured to be coupled to the handpiece and to receive torque from the handpiece to rotate about an axis, the drill bit comprising an identification feature;
a measurement module comprising,
a housing configured to be coupled to the handpiece,
a depth measurement extension being slidably mounted to the housing so as to extend forward or rearward relative to the housing, the depth measurement extension having a distal end adapted for placement against a workpiece, and
a sensor configured to generate an identification signal responsive to the identification feature of the drill bit; and
a controller configured to receive the identification signal from the sensor and determine the suitable screw length for bone fixation based on the identification signal from the sensor.
84. The surgical handpiece system of claim 83, further comprising a transducer assembly for generating a transducer signal based on a position of a distal end of the depth measurement extension relative to the housing, wherein the controller is configured to receive the transducer signal from the transducer assembly and determine the suitable screw length for bone fixation based on the transducer signal from the transducer assembly.
85. The surgical handpiece system of claim 83 or 84, wherein the measurement module is integral with the handpiece.
86. The surgical handpiece system of claim 83 or 84, wherein the measurement module is removable from the handpiece.
</claims>
</document>
