<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16B20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHEINBERG, DAVID, A.
KLATT, Martin Gunther
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73029180
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR IDENTIFICATION OF NON-IMMUNOGENIC EPITOPES AND DETERMINING EFFICACY OF EPITOPES IN THERAPEUTIC REGIMENS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein is an epitope data processing system processes amino acid sequences of a plurality of epitopes determined from a plurality of peptide fragments from a subject. The epitope data processing system identifies a human leukocyte antigen ligand match (HLA-LM) of the epitope by comparing an amino acid sequence of the epitope to an amino acid sequence of at least one unmutated human leukocyte antigen (HLA) ligand, where the HLA-LM binds to at least one HLA allele. The system determines that the epitope is a potentially immunogenic epitope (PIE) based on comparison of %rank of the epitope to the %rank of the HLA-LM for the same HLA allele. The system determines unique epitope-HLA pairs, determines epitope scores, clonality scores, and responder scores for each of the PIEs, and ranks the PIEs based on the respective responder scores.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer implemented method of determining the efficacy of a therapeutic regimen in a subject in need thereof, the method comprising:
receiving, by one or more processors, from a peptide sequencing device, a plurality of peptide fragments associated with the subject;
determining, by the one or more processors, a plurality of epitopes from the plurality of peptide fragments, each epitope of the plurality of epitopes having a %rank that is less than or equal to 2.5 for at least one human leukocyte antigen (HLA) allele;
for each epitope of the plurality of epitopes:
identifying, by the one or more processors, a human leukocyte antigen ligand match (HLA-LM) of the epitope by comparing an amino acid sequence of the epitope to an amino acid sequence of at least one unmutated human leukocyte antigen (HLA) ligand, wherein the HLA-LM binds to at least one HLA allele,
determining, by the one or more processors, that the epitope is a potentially immunogenic epitope (PIE) based on a comparison of the %rank of the epitope to the %rank of the HLA-LM for the same HLA allele, and
determining, by the one or more processors, one or more unique epitope-HLA pairs by comparing the %rank of the PIE for a first HLA allele to the %rank of the PIE for one or more additional HLA alleles;
generating, by the one or more processors, a list of PIEs from the plurality of epitopes, the list of PIEs including epitopes from the plurality of epitopes that have been determined as a PIE;
determining, by the one or more processors, for each PIE in the list of PIEs an epitope score by adding the number of one or more unique epitope-HLA pairs associated with the PIE;
determining, by the one or more processors, a clonality score for each PIE in the list of PIEs by dividing the respective epitope score by the total number of PIEs in the list of PIEs;
determining, by the one or more processors, for each PIE in the list of PIEs, a responder score by (i) assigning points based on the respective epitope score and the respective clonality score, and (ii) adding the assigned points; and ranking, by the one or more processors, the PIEs in the list of PIEs based on the respective responder scores.
2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein comparing the amino acid sequence of the epitope to the amino acid sequence of one or more unmutated ELLA ligands comprises performing a sequence alignment of the amino acid sequences.
3. The computer implemented method of claim 2, further comprising determining, by the one or more processors, a match score for a T cell receptor (TCR) recognition area that is located within the sequence alignment.
4. The computer implemented method of claim 3, wherein the TCR recognition area comprises a region of 5 amino acids.
5. The computer implemented method of claim 3 or 4, wherein determining the match score comprises assigning, by the one or more processors, a numerical value to one or more amino acid positions within the TCR recognition area, wherein assigning a numerical value is based on the similarity of the amino acid residues at the one or more amino acid positions within the TCR recognition area.
6. The computer implemented method of claim 5, wherein a numerical value of 1 is assigned to an amino acid position within the TCR recognition area based on the amino acid residue of the epitope and the amino acid residue of the at least one unmutated ELLA ligand at said amino acid position being identical.
7. The computer implemented method of claim 5, wherein the numerical value assigned to an amino acid position within the TCR recognition area is based on the values provided in FIG. 5.
8. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 5-7, wherein the match score is the sum of the numerical values assigned to the one or more amino acid positions within the TCR recognition area.
9. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 5-8, wherein the HLA ligand is identified as an HLA-LM based on the match score being greater than or equal to 4.
10. The method of any one of claims 5-9, wherein the HLA ligand is identified as an
HLA-LM based on amino acid residues at two or more amino acid positions of the respective epitope being identical to amino acid residues at corresponding positions of the HLA ligand.
11. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 5-10, wherein the HLA
ligand is identified as an HLA-LM based on amino acid residues at three or more amino acid positions of the respective epitope being identical to amino acid residues at corresponding positions of the HLA ligand.
12. The computer implemented method of claim 10 or 11, wherein the identical amino acid residues are located at one or both ends of the TCR recognition area.
13. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 1-12, wherein the epitope is not classified as a PIE based on the respective HLA-LM having a %rank of less than or equal to 4 for at least one HLA allele.
14. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 1-13, wherein the epitope is not classified as a PIE based on the %rank of the respective HLA-LM being within a 5-fold range of the %rank of the epitope.
15. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 1-14, wherein for each of the one or more unique epitope-HLA pairs the %rank of the respective PIE for the first HLA allele is not within a 5-fold range of the %rank of the respective PIE for the respective one or more additional HLA alleles.
16. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 1-15, wherein 6 points are assigned when the epitope score is greater than 200, 4 points are assigned when the epitope score is greater than 50 and less than or equal to 200, or 2 points are assigned when the epitope score is less than or equal to 50.
17. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 1-16, wherein 3 points are assigned when the clonality score is greater than 0.7 and less than or equal to 0.84, 2 points are assigned when the clonality score is less than or equal to 0.7, or 1 point is assigned when the clonality score is greater than 0.84.
18. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the
therapeutic regimen is effective when the responder score is greater than or equal to 7.
19. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the therapeutic regimen is not effective when the responder score is less than or equal to 6
20. The computer implemented method of claim 19, further comprising indicating, by the one or more processors, a modification recommendation to the therapeutic regimen and/or administration of one or more additional therapies upon determining that the therapeutic regimen is not effective.
21. The computer implemented method of claim 20, wherein indicating the modification recommendation to the therapeutic regimen comprises indicating a recommendation for increasing the dose and/or dosing frequency of the therapeutic regimen.
22. The computer implemented method of claim 20, wherein indicating the modification recommendation to the therapeutic regimen comprises indicating a recommendation of terminating the therapeutic regimen.
23. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 1-22, wherein the subject is suffering from cancer or an infection.
24. The computer implemented method of claim 23, wherein the cancer is selected from the group consisting of melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), cutaneous squamous skin carcinoma, small cell lung cancer (SCLC), hormone-refractory prostate cancer, triple-negative breast cancer, microsatellite instable tumor, renal cell carcinoma, urothelial carcinoma, Hodgkin's lymphoma, and Merkel cell carcinoma.
25. The computer implemented method of claim 23, wherein the infection is selected from the group consisting of a viral infection, bacterial infection, parasitic infection, and fungal infection.
26. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 1-25, wherein each epitope of the plurality of epitopes is derived from a protein selected from a cancer-specific protein, a viral protein, a bacterial protein, a parasitic protein, and a fungal protein.
27. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 1-26, wherein the
therapeutic regimen is selected from among an anti-cancer therapy, an anti-viral therapy, an anti-bacterial therapy, an anti-parasitic therapy, and an anti-fungal therapy.
28. The computer implemented method of claim 27, wherein the anti-cancer therapy is an immune checkpoint blockade therapy.
29. The computer implemented method of claim 28, wherein the immune checkpoint blockade therapy is selected from an anti-PDl therapy, an anti-PDLl therapy, and an anti-CTLA4 therapy.
30. A computer implemented method for determining the immunogenicity of an epitope derived from a protein, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors, amino acid sequences associated with a plurality of epitopes;
for each epitope of the plurality of epitopes:
determining, by the one or more processors, from a database, a human leukocyte antigen ligand match (HLA-LM) of the epitope based on a comparison between an amino acid sequence of the epitope and amino acid sequences of one or more unmutated human leukocyte antigen (HLA) ligands;
determining, by the one or more processors, that the epitope as a potentially non-immunogenic epitope (PNIE) based on a comparison between an absolute affinity or a %rank of the HLA-LM and an absolute affinity or a %rank of the epitope, respectively, wherein:
the absolute affinity of the HLA-LM is a binding affinity of the HLA-LM to a human leukocyte antigen (HLA) allele and the absolute affinity of the epitope is a predicted binding affinity of the epitope to the HLA allele, and/or
the %rank of the HLA-LM is an absolute affinity at which the HLA-LM binds to an HLA allele relative to an absolute affinity at which one or more peptides bind to the HLA allele, and the %rank of the epitope is an absolute affinity at which the epitope binds to the HLA allele relative to an absolute affinity at which one or more peptides bind to the HLA allele; and
determining, by the one or more processors, that the PNIE is a nonimmunogenic epitope (NIE) based on the expression site of the protein, wherein the epitope is a NIE if the protein is not expressed in an immune-privileged site; and generating, by the one or more processors, a list of NIEs from the plurality of epitopes, the list of NIEs including the PNIEs determined to be NIEs.
31. The computer implemented method of claim 30, wherein comparing the amino acid sequence of the epitope to the amino acid sequence of one or more HLA ligands comprises performing, by the one or more processors, a sequence alignment of the amino acid sequences.
32. The computer implemented method of claim 31, further comprising determining, by the one or more processors, a match score for a T cell receptor (TCR) recognition area that is located within the sequence alignment.
33. The computer implemented method of claim 32, wherein the TCR recognition area comprises a region of 5 amino acids.
34. The computer implemented method of claim 32 or 33, wherein determining the match score comprises assigning, by the one or more processors, a numerical value to one or more amino acid positions within the TCR recognition area, wherein assigning a numerical value is based on the similarity of the amino acid residues at the one or more amino acid positions within the TCR recognition area.
35. The computer implemented method of claim 34, wherein a numerical value of 1 is assigned to an amino acid position within the TCR recognition area based on the amino acid residue of the epitope and the amino acid residue of the at least one unmutated HLA ligand at said amino acid position being identical.
36. The computer implemented method of claim 34 or 35, wherein the numerical value assigned to an amino acid position within the TCR recognition area is based on the values provided in FIG. 5
37. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 34-36, wherein the match score is the sum of the numerical values assigned to the one or more amino acid positions within the TCR recognition area.
38. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 34-37, wherein the at least one unmutated HLA ligand is identified as an HLA-LM based on the match score being greater than or equal to 4.
39. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 34-38, wherein the at least one unmutated HLA ligand is identified as an HLA-LM based on amino acid residues at two or more amino acid positions of the epitope being identical to amino acid residues at corresponding positions of the at least one unmutated HLA ligand.
40. The computer implemented method of any one of claims 34-39, wherein the at least one unmutated HLA ligand is identified as an HLA-LM based on amino acid residues at three or more amino acid positions of the epitope being identical to amino acid residues at corresponding positions of the at least one unmutated HLA ligand.
41. The computer implemented method of claim 39 or 40, wherein the identical amino acid residues are located at one or both ends of the TCR recognition area.
42. The computer implemented method of any preceding claim, wherein the epitope is characterized as a PNIE based on the HLA-LM having a %rank of less than or equal to 4 for at least one HLA allele.
43. The computer implemented method of any preceding claim, wherein the epitope is characterized as a PNIE based on the absolute affinity or %rank of the HLA-LM being within a 5-fold range of the absolute affinity or %rank of the epitope, respectively.
44. The computer implemented method of any preceding claim, wherein the immuneprivileged site is selected from the group consisting of eye, placenta, fetus, testicle, central nervous system, and hair follicle.
45. A composition comprising a vector that includes a polynucleotide encoding an
epitope listed in any of Tables 2-4, optionally wherein the vector is a bacterial plasmid.
46. The composition of claim 45, wherein the polynucleotide comprises deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).
47. The composition of claim 45 or 46, wherein the vector further comprises a eukaryotic promoter.
48. A composition comprising (a) a polynucleotide encoding an epitope listed in any of Tables 2-4; and (b) a polymerase.
49. The composition of claim 48, wherein the polynucleotide comprises deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).
50. A composition comprising a plurality of polynucleotides encoding a plurality of
epitopes listed in any of Tables 2-4.
51. The composition of claim 50, wherein the plurality of polynucleotides comprises at least 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, or 20 or more polynucleotides that encode at least 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, or 20 or more different epitopes listed in Tables 2-4.
52. A composition comprising (a) an agent that specifically binds to one or more nonimmunogenic epitopes listed in any of Tables 2-4; and (b) a solid support.
53. The composition of claim 52, wherein the agent is a human leukocyte antigen (HLA).
54. The composition of claim 52 or 53, wherein the solid support is selected from a bead, array, slide, and multiwall plate.
55. A composition comprising (a) an agent that specifically binds to one or more nonimmunogenic epitopes listed in any of Tables 2-4; and (b) a reporter molecule.
56. The composition of claim 55, wherein the agent is a human leukocyte antigen (HLA).
57. The composition of claim 55 or 56, wherein the reporter molecule is selected from among a fluorophore, chemiluminescent molecule, and an antibiotic resistance protein.
58. A computer system, comprising:
one or more processors; and a memory storing computer code instructions stored therein, the computer code instructions when executed by the one or more processors cause the computer system to:
receive from a peptide sequencing device, a plurality of peptide fragments associated with the subject;
determine a plurality of epitopes from the plurality of peptide fragments, each epitope of the plurality of epitopes having a %rank that is less than or equal to 2.5 for at least one human leukocyte antigen (HLA) allele;
for each epitope of the plurality of epitopes:
identify a human leukocyte antigen ligand match (HLA-LM) of the epitope by comparing an amino acid sequence of the epitope to an amino acid sequence of at least one unmutated human leukocyte antigen (HLA) ligand, wherein the HLA-LM binds to the at least one HLA allele,
determine that the epitope is a potentially immunogenic epitope (PIE) based on a comparison of the %rank of the epitope to the %rank of the HLA-LM for the same HLA allele, and
determine one or more unique epitope-HLA pairs by comparing the %rank of the PIE for a first HLA allele to the %rank of the PIE for one or more additional HLA alleles;
generate a list of PIEs from the plurality of epitopes, the list of PIEs including epitopes from the plurality of epitopes that have been determined as a PIE;
determine for each PIE in the list of PIEs an epitope score by adding the number of one or more unique epitope-HLA pairs associated with the PIE;
determine a clonality score for each PIE in the list of PIEs by dividing the respective epitope score by the total number of PIEs in the list of PIEs;
determine for each PIE in the list of PIEs, a responder score by (i) assigning points based on the respective epitope score and the respective clonality score, and (ii) adding the assigned points; and
rank the PIEs in the list of PIEs based on the respective responder scores.
59. The computer system of claim 58, wherein comparing the amino acid sequence of the epitope to the amino acid sequence of one or more unmutated HLA ligands comprises performing a sequence alignment of the amino acid sequences.
60. The computer system of claim 58, wherein the computer code instructions when executed by the one or more processors further cause the computer system to determine a match score for a T cell receptor (TCR) recognition area that is located within the sequence alignment.
61. The computer system of claim 60, wherein the TCR recognition area comprises a region of 5 amino acids.
62. The computer system of claim 60 or 61, wherein determining the match score
comprises assigning a numerical value to one or more amino acid positions within the TCR recognition area, wherein assigning a numerical value is based on the similarity of the amino acid residues at the one or more amino acid positions within the TCR recognition area.
63. The computer system of claim 62, wherein a numerical value of 1 is assigned to an amino acid position within the TCR recognition area based on the amino acid residue of the epitope and the amino acid residue of the at least one unmutated HLA ligand at said amino acid position being identical.
64. The computer system of claim 62, wherein the numerical value assigned to an amino acid position within the TCR recognition area is based on the values provided in FIG. 5.
65. The computer system of any one of claims 62-64, wherein the match score is the sum of the numerical values assigned to the one or more amino acid positions within the TCR recognition area.
66. The computer system of any one of claims 62-65, wherein the HLA ligand is
identified as an HLA-LM based on the match score being greater than or equal to 4.
67. The method of any one of claims 62-66, wherein the HLA ligand is identified as an HLA-LM based on amino acid residues at two or more amino acid positions of the respective epitope being identical to amino acid residues at corresponding positions of the HLA ligand.
68. The computer system of any one of claims 62-67, wherein the HLA ligand is
identified as an HLA-LM based on amino acid residues at three or more amino acid positions of the respective epitope being identical to amino acid residues at corresponding positions of the HLA ligand.
69. The computer system of claim 67 or 68, wherein the identical amino acid residues are located at one or both ends of the TCR recognition area.
70. The computer system of any one of claims 58-69, wherein the epitope is not classified as a PIE based on the respective HLA-LM having a %rank of less than or equal to 4 for at least one HLA allele.
71. The computer system of any one of claims 58-70, wherein the epitope is not classified as a PIE based on the %rank of the respective HLA-LM being within a 5-fold range of the %rank of the epitope.
72. The computer system of any one of claims 58-71, wherein for each of the one or more unique epitope-HLA pairs the %rank of the respective PIE for the first HLA allele is not within a 5 -fold range of the %rank of the respective PIE for the respective one or more additional HLA alleles.
73. The computer system of any one of claims 58-72, wherein 6 points are assigned when the epitope score is greater than 200, 4 points are assigned when the epitope score is greater than 50 and less than or equal to 200, or 2 points are assigned when the epitope score is less than or equal to 50.
74. The computer system of any one of claims 58-73, wherein 3 points are assigned when the clonality score is greater than 0.7 and less than or equal to 0.84, 2 points are assigned when the clonality score is less than or equal to 0.7, or 1 point is assigned when the clonality score is greater than 0.84.
75. The computer system of any one of claims 58-74, wherein the therapeutic regimen is effective when the responder score is greater than or equal to 7.
76. The computer system of any one of claims 58-74, wherein the therapeutic regimen is not effective when the responder score is less than or equal to 6.
77. The computer system of claim 76, wherein the computer code instructions when
executed by the one or more processors further cause the computer system to indicate a modification recommendation to the therapeutic regimen and/or administration of one or more additional therapies upon determining that the therapeutic regimen is not effective.
78. The computer system of claim 77, wherein indicating the modification
recommendation to the therapeutic regimen comprises indicating a recommendation for increasing the dose and/or dosing frequency of the therapeutic regimen.
79. The computer system of claim 77, wherein indicating the modification
recommendation to the therapeutic regimen comprises indicating a recommendation of terminating the therapeutic regimen.
80. The computer system of any one of claims 58-79, wherein the subject is suffering from cancer or an infection.
81. The computer system of claim 80, wherein the cancer is selected from the group consisting of melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), cutaneous squamous skin carcinoma, small cell lung cancer (SCLC), hormone-refractory prostate cancer, triple-negative breast cancer, microsatellite instable tumor, renal cell carcinoma, urothelial carcinoma, Hodgkin's lymphoma, and Merkel cell carcinoma.
82. The computer system of claim 80, wherein the infection is selected from the group consisting of a viral infection, bacterial infection, parasitic infection, and fungal infection.
83. The computer system of any one of claims 58-82, wherein each epitope of the
plurality of epitopes is derived from a protein selected from a cancer-specific protein, a viral protein, a bacterial protein, a parasitic protein, and a fungal protein.
84. The computer system of any one of claims 57-83, wherein the therapeutic regimen is selected from among an anti-cancer therapy, an anti-viral therapy, an anti -bacterial therapy, an anti-parasitic therapy, and an anti-fungal therapy.
85. The computer system of claim 84, wherein the anti-cancer therapy is an immune checkpoint blockade therapy.
86. The computer system of claim 85, wherein the immune checkpoint blockade therapy is selected from an anti-PDl therapy, an anti-PDLl therapy, and an anti-CTLA4 therapy.
87. A computer system comprising: one or more processors; and
a memory storing computer code instructions stored therein, the computer code instructions when executed by the one or more processors cause the computer system to:
receive amino acid sequences associated with a plurality of epitopes; for each epitope, of the plurality of epitopes:
determine, from a database, a human leukocyte antigen ligand match (HLA-LM) of the epitope based on a comparison between an amino acid sequence of the epitope and amino acid sequences of one or more unmutated human leukocyte antigen (HLA) ligands;
determine that the epitope as a potentially non-immunogenic epitope (PNIE) based on a comparison between an absolute affinity or a %rank of the HLALM and an absolute affinity or a %rank of the epitope, respectively, wherein:
the absolute affinity of the HLA-LM is a binding affinity of the HLA-LM to a human leukocyte antigen (HLA) allele and the absolute affinity of the epitope is a predicted binding affinity of the epitope to the HLA allele, and/or
the %rank of the HLA-LM is an absolute affinity at which the HLA-LM binds to an HLA allele relative to an absolute affinity at which one or more peptides bind to the HLA allele, and the %rank of the epitope is an absolute affinity at which the epitope binds to the HLA allele relative to an absolute affinity at which one or more peptides bind to the HLA allele; and
determine that the PNIE is a non-immunogenic epitope (NIE) based on the expression site of the protein, wherein the epitope is a NIE if the protein is not expressed in an immune-privileged site; and
generate a list of NIEs from the plurality of epitopes, the list of NIEs including the PNIEs determined to be NIEs.
88. The computer system of claim 87, wherein comparing the amino acid sequence of the epitope to the amino acid sequence of one or more HLA ligands comprises performing, by the one or more processors, a sequence alignment of the amino acid sequences.
89. The computer system of claim 88, further comprising determining, by the one or more processors, a match score for a T cell receptor (TCR) recognition area that is located within the sequence alignment.
90. The computer system of claim 89, wherein the TCR recognition area comprises a region of 5 amino acids.
91. The computer system of claim 89 or 90, wherein determining the match score
comprises assigning, by the one or more processors, a numerical value to one or more amino acid positions within the TCR recognition area, wherein assigning a numerical value is based on the similarity of the amino acid residues at the one or more amino acid positions within the TCR recognition area.
92. The computer system of claim 91, wherein a numerical value of 1 is assigned to an amino acid position within the TCR recognition area based on the amino acid residue of the epitope and the amino acid residue of the at least one unmutated HLA ligand at said amino acid position being identical.
93. The computer system of claim 91 or 92, wherein the numerical value assigned to an amino acid position within the TCR recognition area is based on the values provided in FIG. 5
94. The computer system of any one of claims 91-93, wherein the match score is the sum of the numerical values assigned to the one or more amino acid positions within the TCR recognition area.
95. The computer system of any one of claims 91-94, wherein the at least one unmutated HLA ligand is identified as an HLA-LM based on the match score being greater than or equal to 4.
96. The computer system of any one of claims 91-95, wherein the at least one unmutated HLA ligand is identified as an HLA-LM based on amino acid residues at two or more amino acid positions of the epitope being identical to amino acid residues at corresponding positions of the at least one unmutated HLA ligand.
97. The computer system of any one of claims 91-96, wherein the at least one unmutated HLA ligand is identified as an HLA-LM based on amino acid residues at three or more amino acid positions of the epitope being identical to amino acid residues at corresponding positions of the at least one unmutated HLA ligand.
98. The computer system of claim 96 or 97, wherein the identical amino acid residues are located at one or both ends of the TCR recognition area.
99. The computer system of claims 87-98, wherein the epitope is characterized as a PNIE based on the HLA-LM having a %rank of less than or equal to 4 for at least one HLA allele.
100. The computer system of claims 87-99, wherein the epitope is characterized as a PNIE based on the absolute affinity or %rank of the HLA-LM being within a 5-fold range of the absolute affinity or %rank of the epitope, respectively.
101. The computer system of claims 87-100, wherein the immune-privileged site is selected from the group consisting of eye, placenta, fetus, testicle, central nervous system, and hair follicle.
102. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having computer code
instructions stored thereon, the computer code instructions when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: receive from a peptide sequencing device, a plurality of peptide fragments associated with the subject;
determine a plurality of epitopes from the plurality of peptide fragments, each epitope of the plurality of epitopes having a %rank that is less than or equal to 2.5 for at least one human leukocyte antigen (HLA) allele;
for each epitope of the plurality of epitopes:
identify a human leukocyte antigen ligand match (HLA-LM) of the epitope by comparing an amino acid sequence of the epitope to an amino acid sequence of at least one unmutated human leukocyte antigen (HLA) ligand, wherein the HLA-LM binds to the at least one HLA allele,
determine that the epitope is a potentially immunogenic epitope (PIE) based on a comparison of the %rank of the epitope to the %rank of the HLA-LM for the same HLA allele, and
determine one or more unique epitope-HLA pairs by comparing the %rank of the PIE for a first HLA allele to the %rank of the PIE for one or more additional HLA alleles;
generate a list of PIEs from the plurality of epitopes, the list of PIEs including epitopes from the plurality of epitopes that have been determined as a PIE;
determine for each PIE in the list of PIEs an epitope score by adding the number of one or more unique epitope-HLA pairs associated with the PIE;
determine a clonality score for each PIE in the list of PIEs by dividing the respective epitope score by the total number of PIEs in the list of PIEs;
determine for each PIE in the list of PIEs, a responder score by (i) assigning points based on the respective epitope score and the respective clonality score, and (ii) adding the assigned points; and
rank the PIEs in the list of PIEs based on the respective responder scores.
103. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having computer code
instructions stored thereon, the computer code instructions when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: receive amino acid sequences associated with a plurality of epitopes; for each epitope, of the plurality of epitopes:
determine, from a database, a human leukocyte antigen ligand match (HLA-LM) of the epitope based on a comparison between an amino acid sequence of the epitope and amino acid sequences of one or more unmutated human leukocyte antigen (HLA) ligands;
determine that the epitope as a potentially non-immunogenic epitope (PNIE) based on a comparison between an absolute affinity or a %rank of the HLALM and an absolute affinity or a %rank of the epitope, respectively, wherein: the absolute affinity of the HLA-LM is a binding affinity of the HLA-LM to a human leukocyte antigen (HLA) allele and the absolute affinity of the epitope is a predicted binding affinity of the epitope to the HLA allele, and/or
the %rank of the HLA-LM is an absolute affinity at which the HLA-LM binds to an HLA allele relative to an absolute affinity at which one or more peptides bind to the HLA allele, and the %rank of the epitope is an absolute affinity at which the epitope binds to the HLA allele relative to an absolute affinity at which one or more peptides bind to the HLA allele; and
determine that the PNIE is a non-immunogenic epitope (NIE) based on the expression site of the protein, wherein the epitope is a NIE if the protein is not expressed in an immune-privileged site; and
generate a list of NIEs from the plurality of epitopes, the list of NIEs including the PNIEs determined to be NIEs.
</claims>
</document>
