<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/60,G16H15/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOMBAL, VADIRAJ
DALAL, SANDEEP
KLASSEN, PRESCOTT
MIELOSZYK, REBECCA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69570677
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MAPPING PATHOLOGY AND RADIOLOGY ENTITIES
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments described herein relate to generating and using mappings between entities and entity features extracted from pathology and radiology reports. In various embodiments, a radiology report (102) associated with a subject (127) may be analyzed (602) to identify lesion(s); each of the lesion(s) may have lesion attribute(s). Likewise, a pathology report (112) associated with the subject may also be analyzed (604) to identify sample(s) extracted from the subject; each of the sample(s) may have sample attribute(s). Mapping(s) may be generated (606) between the one or more lesions and the one or more samples based at least in part on correlation between the lesion attributes and the sample attributes. Visual output about the radiology report and the pathology report may then be provided (608) simultaneously, and may visually emphasize a correlation between at least one of the lesions and at least one of the samples.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented using one or more processors, comprising:
analyzing (602) a radiology report (102) associated with a subject to identify one or more lesions, wherein each of the one or more lesions has one or more lesion attributes ;
analyzing (604) a pathology report (112) associated with the subject to identify one or more samples extracted from the subject, wherein each of the one or more samples has one or more sample attributes;
generating (606) one or more mappings between the one or more lesions and the one or more samples based at least in part on correlation between one or more of the lesion attributes and one or more of the sample attributes; and
causing (608) one or more computing devices to generate visual output about the radiology report and the pathology report simultaneously, wherein the visual output is generated based on the one or more mappings to visually emphasize a correlation between at least one of the lesions and at least one of the samples.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the lesion attributes of a given lesion of the one or more lesions include a location within an anatomical structure at which the lesion was identified.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein one or more of the sample attributes of a given sample of the one or more samples include a location within the anatomical structure from which the sample was biopsied.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the generating includes generating a mapping of the one or more mappings based on spatial correspondence between the location within the anatomical structure at which the lesion was identified and the location within the anatomical structure from which the sample was biopsied.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the correlation between the lesion attributes and the sample attributes comprises a strict matching between at least one lesion attribute and at least one sample attribute.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the correlation between the lesion attributes and the sample attributes comprises a soft matching between at least one lesion attribute and at least one sample attribute.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the correlation between at least one of the lesions and at least one of the samples is visually emphasized using a font attribute.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the font attribute comprises a font color.
9. A system comprising one or more processors and memory storing instructions that, in response to execution of the instructions by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform the following operations:
analyzing (602) a radiology report (102) associated with a subject to identify one or more lesions, wherein each of the one or more lesions has one or more lesion attributes;
analyzing (604) a pathology report (112) associated with the subject to identify one or more samples extracted from the subject, wherein each of the one or more samples has one or more sample attributes;
generating (606) one or more mappings between the one or more lesions and the one or more samples based at least in part on correlation between one or more of the lesion attributes and one or more of the sample attributes; and
causing (608) one or more computing devices to generate visual output about the radiology report and the pathology report simultaneously, wherein the visual output is generated based on the one or more mappings to visually emphasize a correlation between at least one of the lesions and at least one of the samples.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein one or more of the lesion attributes of a given lesion of the one or more lesions include a location within an anatomical structure at which the lesion was identified.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein one or more of the sample attributes of a given sample of the one or more samples include a location within the anatomical structure from which the given sample was biopsied.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the generating includes generating a mapping of the one or more mappings based on spatial correspondence between the location within the anatomical structure at which one or more of the lesion was identified and the location within the anatomical structure from which the given sample was biopsied.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the correlation between the lesion attributes and the sample attributes comprises a strict matching between at least one lesion attribute and at least one sample attribute.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the correlation between the lesion attributes and the sample attributes comprises a soft matching between at least one lesion attribute and at least one sample attribute.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the correlation between at least one of the lesions and at least one of the samples is visually emphasized using a font attribute.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the font attribute comprises a font color.
17. At least one non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, in response to execution of the instructions by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform the following operations:
analyzing (602) a radiology report (102) associated with a subject to identify one or more lesions, wherein each of the one or more lesions has one or more lesion attributes; analyzing (604) a pathology report (112) associated with the subject to identify one or more samples extracted from the subject, wherein each of the one or more samples has one or more sample attributes;
generating (606) one or more mappings between the one or more lesions and the one or more samples based at least in part on correlation between one or more of the lesion attributes and one or more of the sample attributes; and
causing (608) one or more computing devices to generate visual output about the radiology report and the pathology report simultaneously, wherein the visual output is generated based on the one or more mappings to visually emphasize a correlation between at least one of the lesions and at least one of the samples.
18. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein one or more of the lesion attributes of a given lesion of the one or more lesions include a location within an anatomical structure at which the given lesion was identified.
19. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein one or more of the sample attributes of a given sample of the one or more samples include a location within the anatomical structure from which the given sample was biopsied.
20. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the generating includes generating a mapping of the one or more mappings based on spatial correspondence between the location within the anatomical structure at which the lesion was identified and the location within the anatomical structure from which the sample was biopsied.
</claims>
</document>
