<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,G10L15/00,G10L15/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALLEN, KRISTEN
DAVIS, ALEXANDER
KRISHNAMURTI, TAMAR PRIYA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLEN, KRISTEN
DAVIS, ALEXANDER
KRISHNAMURTI, TAMAR PRIYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69887967
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A DATA PROCESSING SYSTEM FOR DETECTING HEALTH RISKS AND CAUSING TREATMENT RESPONSIVE TO THE DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
A data processing system is configured to identify treatment responsive to a health risk determined from feature data provided by one or more networked data sources. A classification engine generates a feature vector based on a natural language processing (NLP) of input data representing words provided by a user. Features of the feature vector represent health risk factors. Machine learning logic classifies the features to generate a classification metric indicating whether the features are indicative of health risks or not indicative of health risks. A prediction value is generated indicating a likelihood of each health risk factor for the patient. The patient can be diagnosed with a health condition or disease based on the identified health risks.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data processing system for identifying treatment responsive to a health risk determined from feature data provided by one or more networked data sources, the data processing system comprising:
a classification engine that performs operations comprising:
generating a feature vector based on a natural language processing (NLP) of input data representing one or more words provided by a user, with the feature vector comprising one or more features representing one or more health risk factors;
classifying, using machine learning logic, each of the one or more features of the feature vector to generate a classification metric indicating, for each of the one or more features, that the feature is indicative of a health risk or not indicative of a health risk; and
a prediction engine that generates a prediction value indicative of a predicted likelihood of each health risk factor of the one or more health risk factors by performing operations comprising:
assigning, to one or more of the classification metrics, a prediction weight; and
determining the prediction value for each health risk factor based on the assigned prediction weights.
2. The data processing system of claim 1, further comprising a display engine that generates data for a graphical user interface configured for displaying, when rendered on a client device, one or more prompts to enter the input data, the prompts comprising open-ended queries.
3. The data processing system of claim 2, wherein the graphical user interface is configured to display a determined health condition for the user determined by comparing prediction values for one or more of the health risk factors to threshold values.
4. The data processing system of claim 1, further comprising a display engine configured to generate data for a graphical user interface comprising a user status report, wherein data for the graphical user interface is transmittable to a remote device for review by a medical service provider.
5. The data processing system of claim 1, wherein the natural language processing is used to generate the features for risk classification
6. The data processing system of claim 1, wherein a feature of the feature vector represents a demographic of the user and other user-specific data
7. The data processing system of claim 1, wherein the prediction engine is configured to select a health condition for a user in response to a given prediction value for a given health risk factor exceeding a threshold value.
8. The data processing system of claim 1, wherein the health risks include one or more mental and behavioral health risks consisting of a risk of depression, a risk of suicidality, a risk of self-harm, a risk of harm from others including intimate partner violence, and a risk of an addiction.
9. The data processing system of claim 1, wherein the input data comprises audio data received through a microphone.
10. A method for identifying treatment responsive to a health risk determined from feature data provided by one or more networked data sources, the method comprising:
generating a feature vector based on a natural language processing (NLP) of input data representing one or more words provided by a user, with the feature vector comprising one or more features representing one or more health risk factors; classifying, using machine learning logic, each of the one or more features of the feature vector to generate a classification metric indicating, for each of the one or more features, that the feature is indicative of a health risk or not indicative of a health risk; assigning, to one or more of the classification metrics, a prediction weight; and determining the prediction value for each health risk factor based on the assigned prediction weights.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising generating data for a graphical user interface configured to display, when rendered on the client device, one or more prompts to enter the input data, the prompts comprising open-ended queries.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the graphical user interface is configured to display a determined health condition for a user determined by comparing prediction values for one or more of the health risk factors to threshold values.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising generating data for a graphical user interface comprising a user status report, wherein data for the graphical user interface is transmittable to a remote device for review by a medical service provider.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the natural language processing is used to generate features for risk classification
15. The method of claim 10, wherein a feature of the feature vector represents a demographic of the user and other user-specific data
16. The method of claim 10, further comprising selecting a health condition for the user in response to a given prediction value for a given health risk factor exceeding a threshold value.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein the health risks include one or more mental and behavioral health risks consisting of a risk of depression, a risk of suicidality, a risk of self-harm, a risk of harm from others including intimate partner violence, and a risk of an addiction.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein the input data comprises audio data received through a microphone.
19. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions that are executable by one or more processors configured to perform operations comprising: generating a feature vector based on a natural language processing (NLP) of input data representing one or more words provided by a user, with the feature vector comprising one or more features representing one or more health risk factors;
classifying, using machine learning logic, each of the one or more features of the feature vector to generate a classification metric indicating, for each of the one or more features, that the feature is indicative of a health risk or not indicative of a health risk; assigning, to one or more of the classification metrics, a prediction weight; and determining the prediction value for each health risk factor based on the assigned prediction weights.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 19, further comprising generating data for a graphical user interface configured to display, when rendered on a client device, one or more prompts to enter the input data, the prompts comprising openended queries.
</claims>
</document>
