<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/04,A61N1/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC NEUROMODULATION CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHU, CHANGFANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71741882
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR DISCRETE MEASUREMENT OF ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS
</title>

<abstract>
An electrical stimulation system includes at least one electrical stimulation lead, each of the at least one electrical stimulation lead including a plurality of stimulation electrodes; and a processor coupled to the lead and configured to perform actions, including: directing delivery of at least one electrical pulse through at least one of the stimulation electrodes of the at least one electrical stimulation lead to tissue of a patient; and directing discrete or intermittent measurement of an electrical characteristic of the tissue using at least one of the stimulation electrodes of the at least one electrical stimulation lead during, and after, delivery of the at least one electrical pulse to the tissue of the patient.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed as new and desired to be protected by Leters Patent of the United States is:
1. An electrical stimulation system, comprising:
at least one electrical stimulation lead, each of the at least one electrical stimulation lead comprising a plurality of stimulation electrodes; and
a processor coupled to the lead and configured to perform actions, comprising: directing delivery of at least one electrical pulse through at least one of the stimulation electrodes of the at least one electrical stimulation lead to tissue of a patient; and
directing discrete measurement of an electrical characteristic of the tissue using at least one of the stimulation electrodes of the at least one electrical stimulation lead during, and after, delivery of the at least one electrical pulse to the tissue of the patient.
2. The electrical stimulation system of claim 1, wherein the electrical characteristic is an electric field potential.
3. The electrical stimulation system of any one of claims 1 or 2, wherein the at least one electrical pulse is a therapeutic stimulation pulse.
4. The electrical stimulation system of any one of claims 1 or 2, wherein the at least one electrical pulse is not a therapeutic stimulation pulse or has an intensity that is at a sub-perception level.
5. The electrical stimulation system of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein directing delivery comprises directing delivery of the at least one electrical pulse through two of the stimulation electrodes.
6. The electrical stimulation system of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the at least one electrical pulse comprises at least one first electrical pulse and at least one second electrical pulse, wherein directing delivery comprises directing delivery of the at least one first electrical pulse through a first pair of the stimulation electrodes and directing delivery of the at least one second electrical pulse through a second pair of the stimulation electrodes.
7. The electrical stimulation system of claim 6, wherein directing discrete measurement comprises directing discrete measurement of the electrical characteristic of the tissue using a first pair of the stimulation electrodes to produce a set of first measurements and directing discrete measurement of the electrical characteristic of the tissue using a second pair of the stimulation electrodes to produce a set of second measurements, wherein, optionally, directing discrete measurement comprises producing the first measurements and second measurements during, and after, both the at least first electrical pulse and the at least one second electrical pulse.
8. The electrical stimulation system of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein directing discrete measurement comprises directing discrete measurement of the electrical characteristic of the tissue using two of the stimulation electrodes.
9. The electrical stimulation system of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein directing discrete measurement comprises directing discrete measurement of the electrical characteristic of the tissue using a first pair of the stimulation electrodes to produce a set of first measurements and directing discrete measurement of the electrical characteristic of the tissue using a second pair of the stimulation electrodes to produce a set of second measurements, wherein, optionally, the actions further comprise determining a differential measurement by subtracting one of the first measurements from one of the second measurements.
10. The electrical stimulation system of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the actions further comprise analyzing the discrete measurements to identify a temporal or spatial variation of the electrical characteristic.
11. The electrical stimulation system of claim 10, wherein the actions further comprise extracting a feature or recognizing a pattern in the discrete measurements or the temporal or spatial variation of the electrical characteristic, wherein, optionally, the actions further comprise deriving a characterization of the tissue or the patient using the extracted feature, the recognized pattern, or the temporal or spatial variation of the electrical characteristic, wherein, optionally, the actions further comprise altering a set of stimulation parameters based on the characterization of the tissue or the patient, the extracted feature, the recognized pattern, or the temporal or spatial variation of the electrical characteristic.
12. The electrical stimulation system of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the at least one electrical pulse comprises at least two phases and directing discrete measurement comprises directing at least one measurement during each of the phases of the at least one electrical pulse.
13. The electrical stimulation system of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein directing discrete measurement comprises directing discrete measurement to start or end only after occurrence of a triggering event.
14. The electrical stimulation system of any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein directing discrete measurement comprises directing discrete measurement only during scheduled measurement periods with no measurement occurring during scheduled measurement-off periods.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions for execution by a processor, including: directing delivery of at least one electrical pulse through at least one stimulation electrode of at least one electrical stimulation lead to tissue of a patient; and
directing discrete measurement of an electrical characteristic of the tissue using at least one stimulation electrode of the at least one electrical stimulation lead during, and after, delivery of the at least one electrical pulse to the tissue of the patient.
</claims>
</document>
