<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,G16H10/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HEALTHBLOCK, INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIPHARDT, JAN
JUN, Brian
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70332690
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC DATA PROTECTION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems and computer program products for health data protection. Embodiments commence upon receiving a data access request message from a participant in a health ecosystem. The data access request message comprises an indication of one or more health data sets that are held by or at least potentially of interest to the participant. System components are configured to receive the message and to identify the participant. Based on parameter values corresponding to a data protection policy of the participant, a data protection scheme is generated. The scheme includes parameter values derived from the data protection policy. The parameter values of the scheme are used to generate a variation of the health data set that is formed by applying one or more data anonymization, data obfuscation or other data protection techniques to the health data set. A balance among the parameters is calculated so as to achieve a desired outcome.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for dynamic health data protection, the method comprising:
receiving at least one data access request associated with a health data set, the at least one data access request being associated with at least one participant in an Internet-based health ecosystem;
accessing at least one data protection policy corresponding to the at least one participant; determining a data protection scheme based at least in part on parameter values
corresponding to the at least one data protection policy;
generating a protected health data set from the health data set, the protected health data set being generated based at least in part on application of a selected hashing algorithm; and provisioning access to the protected health data set.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected hashing algorithm comprises a localitysensitive hashing technique.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
selecting the health data set wherein the health data set is selected based at least in part on at least one of: the at least one data access request, or the at least one data protection policy.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the data protection scheme is determined based at least in part on a privacy budget parameter, the privacy budget parameter being derived from the at least one data protection policy.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one differential privacy algorithm is applied to the health data in accordance with the data protection scheme.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein access to at least a portion of the health data set is blocked in accordance with the data protection scheme.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the health data set is obfuscated in accordance with the data protection scheme.
41 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the portion of the health data set is obfuscated by a locality-sensitive hashing technique.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one data protection policy is characterized by one or more policy parameters, the one or more policy parameters being associated with at least one of, a policy identifier, a participant identifier, a user identifier, an inference performance indicator, or a data leakage tolerance indicator.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
issuing a set of instructions to cause an operational element of the at least one participant to apply a participant-specific policy to the health data set.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising:
storing participant-specific protected health data after applying at least a portion of the participant-specific policy to the health data.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
providing access to the stored participant-specific protected health data.
13. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon a sequence of instructions which, when stored in memory and executed by one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform a set of acts for dynamic health data protection, the set of acts comprising:
receiving at least one data access request associated with a health data set, the at least one data access request being associated with at least one participant in an Internet-based health ecosystem;
accessing at least one data protection policy corresponding to the at least one participant; determining a data protection scheme based at least in part on parameter values corresponding to the at least one data protection policy;
generating a protected health data set from the health data set, the protected health data set being generated based at least in part on application of a selected hashing algorithm; and provisioning access to the protected health data set.
42 14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the selected hashing algorithm comprises a locality-sensitive hashing technique.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, further comprising instructions which, when stored in memory and executed by the one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform acts of:
selecting the health data set wherein the health data set is selected based at least in part on at least one of: the at least one data access request, or the at least one data protection policy.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the data protection scheme is determined based at least in part on a privacy budget parameter, the privacy budget parameter being derived from the at least one data protection policy.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein at least one differential privacy algorithm is applied to the health data in accordance with the data protection scheme.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein access to at least a portion of the health data set is blocked in accordance with the data protection scheme.
19. A system for dynamic health data protection, the system comprising:
a storage medium having stored thereon a sequence of instructions; and
one or more processors that execute the instructions to cause the one or more processors to perform a set of acts, the set of acts comprising:
receiving at least one data access request associated with a health data set, the at least one data access request being associated with at least one participant in an Internet-based health ecosystem;
accessing at least one data protection policy corresponding to the at least one participant; determining a data protection scheme based at least in part on parameter values
corresponding to the at least one data protection policy;
generating a protected health data set from the health data set, the protected health data set being generated based at least in part on application of a selected hashing algorithm; and provisioning access to the protected health data set. 43 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the selected hashing algorithm comprises a localitysensitive hashing technique.
21. A system for dynamic health data protection, the system comprising:
means for receiving at least one data access request associated with a health data set, the at least one data access request being associated with at least one participant in an Internetbased health ecosystem;
means for accessing at least one data protection policy corresponding to the at least one participant;
means for determining a data protection scheme based at least in part on parameter values corresponding to the at least one data protection policy;
means for generating a protected health data set from the health data set, the protected health data set being generated based at least in part on application of a selected hashing algorithm; and
means for provisioning access to the protected health data set.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the selected hashing algorithm comprises a localitysensitive hashing technique.
23. The system of claim 21, further comprising:
means for selecting the health data set wherein the health data set is selected based at least in part on at least one of: the at least one data access request, or the at least one data protection policy.
24. The system of claim 21, wherein the data protection scheme is determined based at least in part on a privacy budget parameter, the privacy budget parameter being derived from the at least one data protection policy.
25. The system of claim 21, wherein at least one differential privacy algorithm is applied to the health data in accordance with the data protection scheme.
26. The system of claim 21, wherein at least a portion of the health data set is obfuscated in accordance with the data protection scheme.
27. The system of claim 21, wherein the at least one data protection policy is characterized by one or more policy parameters, the one or more policy parameters being 44 associated with at least one of, a policy identifier, a participant identifier, a user identifier, an inference performance indicator, or a data leakage tolerance indicator.
28. The system of claim 21, further comprising:
means for issuing a set of instructions to cause an operational element of the at least one participant to apply a participant-specific policy to the health data set.
29. The system of claim 28, further comprising:
means for storing participant-specific protected health data after applying at least a portion of the participant-specific policy to the health data.
30. The system of claim 29, further comprising:
means for providing access to the stored participant-specific protected health data.
45
</claims>
</document>
