<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01V1/28,G01V1/30,G01V99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EXXONMOBIL UPSTREAM RESEARCH COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DENLI, HUSEYIN
HERNANDEZ, DIEGO
MACDONALD, CODY J.
TRENEV, DIMITAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68808622
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED SEISMIC INTERPRETATION-GUIDED INVERSION
</title>

<abstract>
A method and apparatus for seismic analysis include obtaining an initial geophysical model and seismic data for a subsurface region; producing a subsurface image of the subsurface region with the seismic data and the geophysical model; generating a map of one or more geologic features of the subsurface region by automatically interpreting the subsurface image; and iteratively updating the geophysical model, subsurface image, and map of geologic features by: building an updated geophysical model based on the geophysical model of a prior iteration constrained by one or more geologic features from the prior iteration; imaging the seismic data with the updated geophysical model to produce an updated subsurface image; and automatically interpreting the updated subsurface image to generate an updated map of geologic features. The method and apparatus may also include post-stack migration, pre-stack time migration, pre-stack depth migration, reverse-time migration, gradient-based tomography, and/or gradient-based inversion methods.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of seismic analysis, comprising:
obtaining an initial geophysical model of a subsurface region;
obtaining seismic data for the subsurface region;
producing a subsurface image of the subsurface region with the seismic data and the geophysical model;
generating a map of one or more geologic features of the subsurface region by automatically interpreting the subsurface image; and
iteratively updating the geophysical model, subsurface image, and map of geologic features by:
building an updated geophysical model based on the geophysical model of a prior iteration constrained by one or more geologic features from the prior iteration; imaging the seismic data with the updated geophysical model to produce an updated subsurface image; and
automatically interpreting the updated subsurface image to generate an updated map of geologic features.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein, for at least one iteration, building the updated geophysical model comprises at least one of Full Wavefield Inversion (FWI) and seismic tomography.
3. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein, for at least one iteration, imaging the seismic data with the updated geophysical model comprises at least one of post-stack migration, pre-stack time migration, pre-stack depth migration, reverse-time migration, gradient-based tomography, and gradient-based FWI methods.
4. The method of any one of the foregoing claims, wherein, for at least one iteration, the updated subsurface image comprises at least one of a post-stack migration image, a pre-stack time migration image, a reverse-time migration image, an FWI gradient image, and a tomography gradient image.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the FWI gradient image is based on at least one of short-offset impedance gradients, short-offset density gradients, and short-offset reflectivity gradients.
6. The method of any one of the foregoing claims, wherein the geologic features comprise a plurality of geobodies and interfaces therebetween.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein at least one of the geobodies comprises at least semicontiguous cells in the geophysical model, the at least semi-contiguous cells comprising a plurality of cells in each of three-dimension, and the geobody having a parameter value that is continuous across each of the plurality of cells.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein, at one or more of the interfaces, a parameter value varies discontinuously in the geophysical model in at least one direction.
9. The method of any one of the foregoing claims, wherein, for at least one iteration, automatically interpreting the updated subsurface image comprises Automated Seismic Interpretation (ASI).
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the ASI comprises seismic imaging with Li constraints.
11. The method of claim 9 or claim 10, wherein the ASI comprises training a Deep Neural Network (DNN) to interpret the subsurface images.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the DNN comprises a fully-convolutional neural network.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the fully-convolutional neural network comprises one or more of: U-net architecture, densely-connected network architecture, residual network architecture, and combinations of any two or more of the foregoing.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the DNN comprises a recurrent neural network.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising, training the DNN with manuallyinterpreted subsurface images.
16. The method of any one of the foregoing claims, wherein the seismic data comprises seismic shot gathers, and the initial geophysical model comprises a subsurface velocity model.
17. The method of any one of the foregoing claims, wherein, for at least one iteration, building the updated geophysical model based on the geophysical model of a prior iteration constrained by one or more geologic features from the prior iteration comprises at least one of: using a shape-constrained inversion method;
reparameterization of variables conforming to the geologic features; and
using regularization terms to enforce presence of the geologic features.
18. The method of any one of the foregoing claims, further comprising displaying the updated map of geologic features.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the updated map of geologic features is displayed by a geophysical data analysis system.
20. The method of any one of the foregoing claims, further comprising managing hydrocarbons based at least in part upon the updated map of geologic features.
21. A geophysical data analysis system, comprising:
a processor; and
a display configured to display graphical representations of a geophysical data set, wherein the geophysical data analysis system is configured to:
obtain an initial geophysical model of a subsurface region;
obtain seismic data for the subsurface region;
produce a subsurface image of the subsurface region with the seismic data and the geophysical model;
generate a map of one or more geologic features of the subsurface region by automatically interpreting the subsurface image; and
iteratively update the geophysical model, subsurface image, and map of geologic features by:
building an updated geophysical model based on the geophysical model of a prior iteration constrained by one or more geologic features from the prior iteration;
imaging the seismic data with the updated geophysical model to produce an updated subsurface image;
automatically interpreting the updated subsurface image to generate an updated map of geologic features; and
display, via said display, a visual representation of the updated map of geologic features.
22. An improved method for generating an image of a subsurface region, the improvement of which comprises: building an updated geophysical model based on a geophysical model of a prior iteration constrained by one or more geologic features of the subsurface region from the prior iteration, the method comprising:
obtaining an initial geophysical model of the subsurface region; obtaining seismic data for the subsurface region;
producing a subsurface image of the subsurface region with the seismic data and the geophysical model;
generating a map of the geologic features by automatically interpreting the subsurface image; and
iteratively updating the geophysical model, subsurface image, and map of geologic features by:
building the updated geophysical model;
imaging the seismic data with the updated geophysical model to produce an updated subsurface image; and
automatically interpreting the updated subsurface image to generate an updated map of geologic features.
</claims>
</document>
