<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
H & M HENNES & MAURITZ (FAR EAST)
</assignee>

<inventors>
RANJAN, RAKESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70974545
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CAPACITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION OF GARMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A system, method and a computer application program for determining required production capacity for the manufacturing of garment products, comprising: a garment product configuration engine (215) having a visual interactive user interface (200), a standard minute value calculator (260). The garment product configuration engine (215) with the visual interactive user interface (200) is configured to: form a configured product based on received selection commands for selected materials, selected base product and possibly selected additional features. The standard minute value calculator (260) is configured to determine a standard minute value for the configured product based on a preset standard minute value for the selected base product, on a preset standard minute impact value for the selected additional style features and on a complexity material sewing level SMV impact rate for the determined complexity material sewing level. An estimate of required production capacity for manufacturing the configured garment product based on determined standard minute value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for determining required production capacity for the manufacturing of garment products, comprising a terminal, a computer processor and computer program code portions configured to direct the computer processor to perform:
a. a garment product configuration engine having a visual interactive user interface on a terminal screen and being configured to:
i. present, on the terminal screen, a set of selectable base products and to receive a base product selection command;
ii. present, on the terminal screen, a set of selectable additional style features and to receive an additional style feature selection command for adding a selected style feature to the base product;
iii. present, on the terminal screen,
iv. a set of selectable materials and to receive a material selection command for a base product and/or for additional style features;
v. form and store in a memory a configured product based on received
selection commands for selected materials, selected base product and possibly selected additional features;
vi. present, on the terminal screen, a visual representation of the configured product;
b. a standard minute value calculator configured to:
i. determine and store in a memory a complexity material sewing level for the configured product based on selected material for base product and possible additional style features of the configured product;
ii. determine and store in a memory a standard minute value for the configured product based on a preset standard minute value for the selected base product, on a preset standard minute impact value for the selected additional style features and on a complexity material sewing level SMV impact rate for the determined complexity material sewing level;
c. a result presentation generator configured to generate and store in a memory as well as to present on the terminal screen an estimate of the required production capacity for manufacturing the configured garment product based on the determined standard minute value.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising computer program code portions configured to direct a computer processor such that:
- the selectable garment products and the selectable additional style features are presented as icon images on the visual interactive user interface;
- the icon images are realized as clickable icon images forming selection command input fields.
3. The system of claim 2, further comprising computer program code portions configured to direct a computer processor such that:
- the selection command fields are realized as clickable icon images configured to be dragand-dropped on the garment product presentation field on the visual interface to indicate a selection and to enter a selection command.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising computer program code portions configured to direct a computer processor such that:
- each selectable material has an associated preset complexity material sewing level stored as a parameter in a memory.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising computer program code portions configured to direct a computer processor such that:
- each selectable garment base product is associated with a preset garment base product SMV;
- each selectable additional style feature is associated with a preset additional style product SMV impact value;
- each selectable material is associated with a preset complexity material sewing level impact rate; and
stored as a parameter in a memory.
6. The system of the preceding claim, further comprising computer program code portions configured to direct a computer processor such that:
- the standard minute value for the configured product is calculated and stored in a memory as the sum of the garment base product SMV associated with the configured product and additional style product SMV impact values of one or more selected additional features times the complexity material sewing level impact rate of the selected material.
7. The system of any of claims 1-6, further comprising computer program code portions
configured to direct a computer processor to perform:
- CMT (Cut, Make & Trim) calculation functionality, wherein the CMT calculation is based on the determined standard minute value for the configured garment product.
8. A computer application program for determining required production capacity for the
manufacturing of garment products, comprising computer program code portions configured to direct a computer processor to perform:
a. a garment product configuration engine having a visual interactive user interface on a terminal screen and being configured to:
i. present, on the terminal screen, a set of selectable base products and to receive a base product selection command;
ii. present, on the terminal screen, a set of selectable additional style features and to receive an additional style feature selection command for adding a selected style feature to the base product;
iii. present, on the terminal screen, a set of selectable materials and to receive a material selection command for a base product and/or for additional style features;
iv. form and store in a memory a configured product based on received
selection commands for selected materials, selected base product and possibly selected additional features;
v. present, on the terminal screen, a visual representation of the configured product;
b. a standard minute value calculator configured to:
i. determine and store in a memory a complexity material sewing level for the configured product based on selected material for base product and possible additional style features of the configured product;
ii. determine and store in a memory a standard minute value for the configured product based on a preset standard minute value for the selected base product, on a preset standard minute impact value for the selected additional style features and on a complexity material sewing level SMV impact rate for the determined complexity material sewing level;
c. a result presentation generator configured to generate and store in a memory as well as to present on the terminal screen an estimate of the required production capacity for manufacturing the configured garment product based on the determined standard minute value.
9. The computer application program of claim 8, further comprising computer program code portions configured to direct a computer processor such that:
- the selectable garment products and the selectable additional style features are presented as icon images on the visual interactive user interface;
- the icon images are realized as clickable icon images forming selection command input fields.
10. The computer application program of claim 9, further comprising computer program code portions configured to direct a computer processor such that:
- the selection command fields are realized as clickable icon images configured to be dragand-dropped on the garment product presentation field on the visual interface to indicate a selection and to enter a selection command.
11. The computer application program of claim 8, further comprising computer program code portions configured to direct a computer processor such that:
- each selectable material has an associated preset complexity material sewing level stored as a parameter in a memory.
12. The computer application program of claim 8, further comprising computer program code portions configured to direct a computer processor such that:
- each selectable garment base product is associated with a preset garment base product SMV;
- each selectable additional style feature is associated with a preset additional style product SMV impact value;
- each selectable material is associated with a preset complexity material sewing level impact rate; and
stored as a parameter in a memory.
13. The computer application program of the preceding claim, further comprising computer program code portions configured to direct a computer processor such that:
- the standard minute value for the configured product is calculated and stored in a memory as the sum of the garment base product SMV associated with the configured product and additional style product SMV impact values of one or more selected additional features times the complexity material sewing level impact rate of the selected material.
14. The computer application program of any of claims 8 to 13, further comprising computer program code portions configured to direct a computer processor to perform:
- CMT (Cut, Make & Trim) calculation functionality, wherein the CMT calculation is based on the determined standard minute value for the configured garment product.
15. A method for determining, by means of a computer processor, required production capacity for the manufacturing of garment products, comprising: i. Presenting, on a terminal screen, a set of selectable base products and receiving a base product selection command;
ii. presenting, on the terminal screen, a set of selectable additional style
features and receiving an additional style feature selection command for adding a selected style feature to the base product;
iii. presenting, on the terminal screen, a set of selectable materials and
receiving a material selection command for a base product and/or for additional style features;
iv. forming and storing in a memory a configured product based on received selection commands for selected materials, selected base product and possibly selected additional features;
v. presenting, on the terminal screen, a visual representation of the configured product;
vi. determining and storing in a memory a complexity material sewing level for the configured product based on selected material for base product and possible additional style features of the configured product;
vii. determining and storing in a memory a standard minute value for the
configured product based on a preset standard minute value for the selected base product, on a preset standard minute impact value for the selected additional style features and on a complexity material sewing level SMV impact rate for the determined complexity material sewing level;
viii. generating, storing in a memory and presenting on the terminal an estimate of the required production capacity for manufacturing the configured garment product based on the determined standard minute value.
16. The method of claim 15, comprising:
- presenting, on the terminal screen, the selectable garment products and the selectable additional style features as icon images on the visual interactive user interface;
- realizing the icon images as clickable icon images forming selection command input fields.
17. The method of claim 16, comprising realizing and presenting on the terminal screen, the selection command fields:
- as clickable icon images configured to be drag-and-dropped on the garment product presentation field on the visual interface to indicate a selection and to enter a selection command;
or
- as tapping sensitive icon images configured to be tapped to indicate a selection and to enter a selection command.
18. The method of claim 15, comprising:
- associating each selectable garment base product with a preset garment base product SMV;
- associating each selectable additional style feature with a preset additional style product SMV impact value;
- associating each selectable material with a preset complexity material sewing level impact rate; and
- storing each association as a parameter in a memory.
19. The method of the preceding claim, comprising:
- calculating and storing in a memory the standard minute value for the configured product as the sum of the garment base product SMV associated with the configured product and additional style product SMV impact values of one or more selected additional features times the complexity material sewing level impact rate of the selected material.
20. The method of any of claims 15 to 19, further comprising:
- calculating and storing in a memory a CMT (Cut, Make & Trim) value, wherein the CMT calculation is based on the determined standard minute value for the configured garment product.
</claims>
</document>
