<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02C7/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RXSIGHT
</assignee>

<inventors>
HALLER, MATT
KURTZ, RONALD
ZIMANYI, GERGELY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71122376
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-FACTOR CONTROL SYSTEM FOR OPHTHALMIC REFRACTION MODIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
An ophthalmic system comprises a Refraction Modification System for modifying a refraction of an eye, in response to refraction modification parameters: and a Prescription Engine, for generating the refraction modification parameters for the Refraction Modification System by a Prescription Algorithm that combines one or more diagnostic factor, determined by an ophthalmic diagnostic device, and one or more patient factor. Correspondingly, a method of operating an ophthalmic system comprises receiving one or more diagnostic factor by a Prescription Engine, determined by an ophthalmic diagnostic device; receiving one or more patient factor by the Prescription Engine; and generating refraction modification parameters by the Prescription Engine for a Refraction Modification System by combining the one or more diagnostic factor and the one or more patient factor with a Prescription Algorithm; wherein the Refraction Modification System is configured for modifying a refraction of an eye, in response to the generated refraction modification parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An ophthalmic system, comprising:
a Refraction Modification System for modifying a refraction of an eye, in response to refraction modification parameters; and
a Prescription Engine, for generating the refraction modification parameters for the Refraction Modification System by a Prescription Algorithm that combines
one or more diagnostic factor, determined by an ophthalmic diagnostic device, and one or more patient factor.
2. The ophthalmic system of claim 1, wherein:
the ophthalmic system is modular such that the Prescription Engine, separate from the Refraction Modification System, is configured for outputting the refraction modification parameters; and
the Refraction Modification System is configured for receiving the refraction modification parameters through a physician action.
3. The ophthalmic system of claim 1, wherein:
the ophthalmic system is integrated such that the Prescription Engine is configured for coupling the refraction modification parameters into the Refraction Modification System, optionally under a control of a physician.
4. The ophthalmic system of claim 1, wherein:
the one or more diagnostic factor is selected from the group consisting of a manifest refraction, an optical power, a coma, a cylinder, a spherical aberration, a Point Spread Function factor, and a Modulation Transfer Function factor.
5. The ophthalmic system of claim 1 , wherein:
the diagnostic device is selected from the group consisting of a phoropter, a wavefront aberrometer, an auto refractor, a Scheimpflug imaging system, and an Optical Coherence Tomography system.
6. The ophthalmic system of claim 1, wherein;
one or more patient factor is determined by a patient vision test, selected from
a patient survey of visual disfunctions;
a patient vision preference;
a patient medical statistics;
an in-office patient visual test involving patient subjective feedback;
an ex-office patient self-test;
a patient spectacle wear compliance information;
a photopic test, a mesopic test, and a scotopic test; and
a distance vision test, an intermediate vision test, and a near vision test;
optionally impacted by one or more physician control factor, adjustable by a physician.
7. The ophthalmic system of claim 6, wherein;
specific patient factors are determined by the patient survey related to visual disfunctions selected from a group consisting of
low light performance, glare, haloes, blurriness, haziness, starbursts, distortions, double vision, depth perception, fluctuation, focusing difficulty, and a binocular function.
8. The ophthalmic system of claim 7, wherein;
specific patient factors are combined into patient factors by at least one of
a weighted summation;
a polynomial summation;
a calculation of a higher moment;
a neural network algorithm; and
an algorithm using Item Response Theory,
optionally impacted by one or more physician control factor, adjustable by a physician.
9. The ophthalmic system of claim 1, wherein;
the Prescription Engine is configured for combining the one or more diagnostic factor and the one or more patient factor by the Prescription Algorithm that uses one or more physician control factor, adjustable by a physician.
10. The ophthalmic system of claim 9, wherein:
the one or more physician control factor is used by the Prescription Algorithm to combine the one or more diagnostic factor and the one or more patient factor, as at least one of
weighting factors in a weighted Prescription Algorithm summation;
parameters for a non-linear Prescription Algorithm;
functional settings for a Prescription Algorithm function;
coding inputs for a Prescription Algorithm code;
training input for a Machine Learning-based Prescription Algorithm; and
parameters for a Prescription Algorithm based on Item Response Theory.
11. The ophthalmic system of claim 1 , wherein:
the refraction modification parameters are selected from the group consisting of an optical power, an aberration, a coma, a cylinder, a spherical aberration, a Point Spread Function factor, and a Modulation Transfer Function factor.
12. The ophthalmic system of claim 1, wherein:
the Refraction Modification System is selected from the group consisting of
a scanning laser for IOL modification, a scanning laser for corneal surgery, an illumination system for corneal crosslinking, a surgical system for corneal implants, a surgical system for scleral procedures, a surgical system for anterior chamber or posterior chamber procedures, and a contact lens providing system.
13. The ophthalmic system of claim 1, wherein:
the Refraction Modification System is a Light Delivery Device, for illuminating a Light Adjustable Lens implanted into the eye; and
the refraction modification parameters are selected from the group consisting of an optical power, an aberration, a coma, a cylinder, a spherical aberration, a Point Spread Function factor, and a Modulation Transfer Function factor, a Central Near Add parameter, a peripheral annulus parameter, an axis offset, a radial dependence of any of the optical performance parameters listed here, a measure of a halo, and a measure of a glare.
14. The ophthalmic system of claim 1, wherein:
the Prescription Engine is configured for generating a warning signal, when an inconsistency of a diagnostic factor and a patient factor exceeds a threshold.
15. A method of operating an ophthalmic system, the method comprising; receiving one or more diagnostic factor by a Prescription Engine, determined by an ophthalmic diagnostic device;
receiving one or more patient factor by the Prescription Engine; and
generating refraction modification parameters by the Prescription Engine for a Refraction Modification System by combining the one or more diagnostic factor and the one or more patient factor with a Prescription Algorithm; wherein
the Refraction Modification System is configured for modifying a refraction of an eye, in response to the generated refraction modification parameters.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein;
the one or more diagnostic factor is selected from the group consisting of a manifest refraction, an optical power, a coma, a cylinder, a spherical aberration, a Point Spread Function factor, and a Modulation Transfer Function factor; and
the diagnostic device is selected from the group consisting of a wavefront aberrometer, an auto refractor, a Scheimpflug imaging system, and an Optical Coherence Tomography system.
17. The method of claim 15, comprising;
determining one or more a patient factor by a patient vision test from at least one of a patient survey of visual disfunction;
a patient vision preference;
a patient medical statistics;
an in-office patient visual test involving patient subjective feedback;
an ex-office patient self-test;
a patient spectacle wear compliance information;
a photopic test, a mesopic test, and a scotopic test; and
a distance vision test, an intermediate vision test, and a near vision test;
optionally impacted by one or more physician control factor, adjustable by a physician.
18. The method of claim 17, the determining the one or more patient factor comprising; determining specific patient factors by the patient survey related to the visual disfunction, selected form a group consisting of
low light performance, glare, haloes, blurriness, haziness, starbursts, distortions, double vision, depth perception, fluctuation, focusing difficulty, and a binocular function.
19. The method of claim 18, the determining the one or more patient factor comprising: combining specific patient factors into patient factors by at least one of
a weighted summation;
a polynomial summation;
a calculation of a higher moment;
a neural network algorithm; and
an algorithm using Item Response Theory,
optionally impacted by one or more physician control factor, adjustable by a physician.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein:
the ex-office patient self-test is performed using at least one of a portable digital device, a portable electro-optical device, and a mobile phone.
21. Tire method of claim 15, wherein the combining comprises:
combining the one or more diagnostic factor and the one or more patient factor by the Prescription Engine with the Prescription Algorithm that uses one or more physician control factor, optionally adjustable by a physician.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein:
the one or more physician control factor is used by the Prescription Algorithm to combine the one or more diagnostic factor and the one or more patient factor, as at least one of
weighting factors in a weighted Prescription Algorithm summation;
parameters for a non-linear Prescription Algorithm;
functional settings for a Prescription Algorithm function;
coding inputs for a Prescription Algorithm code;
training input for a Machine Learning-based Prescription Algorithm; and
parameters for a Prescription Algorithm based on Item Response Theory.
23. The method of claim 15, wherein:
the Refraction Modification System is a Light Delivery Device, for illuminating a Light Adjustable Lens implanted into the eye; and
the refraction modification parameters are selected from the group consisting of an optical power, an aberration, a coma, a cylinder, a spherical aberration, a Point Spread
Function factor, and a Modulation Transfer Function factor, a Central Near Add parameter, a peripheral annulus parameter, an axis offset, a radial dependence of any of the optical performance parameters listed here, a measure of a halo, and a measure of a glare.
24. The method of claim 15, comprising:
generating a warning signal by the Prescription Engine, when an inconsistency of a diagnostic factor and a patient factor exceeds a threshold.
</claims>
</document>
