<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/279,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
PAL, MANJOT SINGH
PLONTSCH, BERND INGO
CONSUEGRA BERRUEZO, Antonio José
WANG, Selina
KONDRATIUK, Iurii
YATES, Timothy Alexander
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70554195
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING AND MACHINE LEARNING FOR PERSONALIZED TASKS EXPERIENCE
</title>

<abstract>
In non-limiting examples of the present disclosure, systems, methods and devices for assisting with task completion are provided. A natural language input may be received. A natural language processing engine may be applied to the natural language input. A primary task associated with the natural language input may be identified. A plurality of subtasks for completing the primary task may be identified from the natural language input. A determination may be made from the natural language input that the primary task or one of the plurality of subtasks is more important than other tasks. The primary task and the plurality of subtasks may be added to a list of tasks in a task completion application. An indication of importance may be associated in the task completion application in association with the task or subtask that is determined to be more important.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for assisting with task completion, the method comprising:
receiving a text-based natural language input;
applying a natural language processing engine to the natural language input;
identifying, from the natural language input, a primary task associated with the natural language input;
identifying, from the natural language input, a plurality of subtasks for completing the primary task;
determining, from the natural language input, that the primary task or one of the plurality of subtasks has a higher degree of importance associated with it than each other identified task or subtask;
adding the primary task and the plurality of subtasks to a list of tasks in a task completion application; and
surfacing, in the task completion application, an indication of importance in association with the task or subtask determined to have a higher degree of importance associated with it.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of subtasks is identified by first identifying that the natural language input includes a string separated by one or more delimiters.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the task or subtask that is determined to have a higher degree of importance associated with it is surfaced, in the task completion application, above each other identified subtask.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the natural language processing engine to the natural language input comprises applying at least one of: a hierarchical attention model, and a conditional random field model to the natural language input.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying a primary task associated with the natural language input further comprises identifying a date for completing an event included in the natural language input.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the natural language input is received by the task completion application from one of: an email application, an instant messaging
application, and a digital assistant service.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the indication of importance surfaced in association with the task or subtask determined to have a higher degree of importance associated with it is in a format native to the task completion application, and that indication is different from any indication included in the natural language input.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining that the primary task or one of the plurality of subtasks has a higher degree of importance associated with it comprises applying a machine learning model to a plurality of natural language inputs from a user that generated the natural language input.
9. A system for assisting with task completion, comprising:
a memory for storing executable program code; and
one or more processors, functionally coupled to the memory, the one or more processors being responsive to computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to:
receive a text-based natural language input;
apply a natural language processing engine to the natural language input; identify, from the natural language input, a primary task associated with the natural language input;
identify a plurality of subtasks for completing the primary task;
determine, from the natural language input, that the primary task or one of the plurality of subtasks has a higher degree of importance associated with it than each other identified task or subtask;
add the primary task and the plurality of subtasks to a list of tasks in a task completion application; and
surface, in the task completion application, an indication of importance in association with the task or subtask determined to have a higher degree of importance with it.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein in identifying the plurality of subtasks, the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to:
identify that the natural language input includes a string separated by one or more delimiters.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: surface the task or subtask that is determined to have a higher degree of importance associated with it above each other identified subtask in the task completion application.
12. The system of claim 9, in applying the natural language processing engine to the natural language input, the one or more processors are further responsive to the computerexecutable instructions contained in the program code and operative to:
apply at least one of: a hierarchical attention model, and a conditional random field model to the natural language input.
13. The system of claim 9 in identifying a primary task associated with the natural language input, the one or more processors are further responsive to the computerexecutable instructions contained in the program code and operative to:
identify a date for completing an event included in the natural language input.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the indication of importance surfaced in association with the task or subtask determined to have a higher degree of importance associated with it is in a format native to the task completion application, and that indication is different from any indication included in the natural language input.
15. A computer-readable storage device comprising executable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, assists with task completion, the computer-readable storage device including instructions executable by the one or more processors for:
receiving a text-based natural language input;
applying a natural language processing engine to the natural language input;
identifying, from the natural language input, a primary task associated with the natural language input;
identifying a plurality of subtasks for completing the primary task;
determining, from the natural language input, that the primary task or one of the plurality of subtasks has a higher degree of importance associated with it than each other identified task or subtask;
adding the primary task and the plurality of subtasks to a list of tasks in a task completion application; and
surfacing, in the task completion application, an indication of importance in association with the task or subtask determined to have a higher degree of importance with it.
</claims>
</document>
