<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01J3/26,G02B1/00,G02B5/00,G02B5/20,G02B5/28,H04N5/225
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COHERENT AI LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEI, XIN
ZHU, YIBO
WANG, Xingze
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72516026
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OPTICAL SENSING DEVICE EMPLOYING LIGHT INTENSITY DETECTORS INTEGRATED WITH NANOSTRUCTURES
</title>

<abstract>
Optical sensing devices employing light intensity detectors integrated with nanostructures. In some embodiments, the nanostructures are 3D nanostructures having feature sizes in all three dimensions comparable to a wavelength range of the incident light, and are used for hyperspectral sensing. In some other embodiments, the nanostructures are simultaneous sensitive to both the spectrum and one or more of polarization, angle and phase information of the incident light field, to provide multi-modal optical sensing devices. In some other embodiments, each spatial pixel of an image sensor includes a group of sampling pixels configured for hyperspectral sensing and another group of sampling pixels configured for sensing polarization, angle or phase of the incident light.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An optical sensing device comprising:
a light intensity detector; and
a three-dimensional nanostructure integrated above the light intensity detector, the threedimensional nanostructure having feature sizes in all three dimensions comparable to a wavelength range of an incident light to be detected.
2. The optical sensing device of claim 1, wherein the light intensity detector is a CMOS (complementary metal-oxidesemiconductor) sensor.
3. The optical sensing device of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional nanostructure includes dielectric, metallic or polymeric materials.
4. The optical sensing device of claim 1, wherein feature sizes in the three dimensions are 1/10 to 5 times of a representative wavelength of the intended incident light.
5. The optical sensing device of claim 1, comprising:
a plurality of light intensity detectors; and
a plurality of three-dimensional nanostructures each integrated above one of the plurality of light intensity detectors, wherein the three-dimensional nanostructures above different light intensity detectors are different.
6. The optical sensing device of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional nanostructure including a plurality of layers of two-dimensional nanostructures.
7. The optical sensing device of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional nanostructure includes a material with higher index of refraction and a material of a lower index of refraction, where a lateral distributions of the higher index and low index materials forms a greater effective refractive index on top of one or more predefined regions of the detector than on top of other regions of the detector.
8. The optical sensing device of claim 7, wherein the one or more predefined regions of the detector includes a center region of the detector.
9. The optical sensing device of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional nanostructure includes multiple layers of alternating film stacks forming a Fabry-Perot resonance structure, and a layer of two-dimensional nanostructure disposed above the Fabry-Perot resonance structure.
10. The optical sensing device of claim 1, comprising a plurality of light intensity detectors and a plurality of three-dimensional nanostructures each integrated above a corresponding one of the plurality of light intensity detectors,
wherein the three-dimensional nanostructure for each light intensity detector includes multiple layers of alternating film stacks forming a Fabry-Perot resonance structure and a layer of two-dimensional nanostructure disposed above the Fabry-Perot resonance structure, and
wherein the layer of two-dimensional nanostructures above different detectors have different feature sizes and locations.
11. The optical sensing device of claim 1, comprising a plurality of light intensity detectors and a plurality of three-dimensional nanostructures each integrated above a corresponding one of the plurality of light intensity detectors,
wherein the three-dimensional nanostructure for each light intensity detector includes multiple layers of alternating film stacks forming a Fabry-Perot resonance structure and a layer of two-dimensional nanostructure disposed above the Fabry-Perot resonance structure, and
wherein the layer of two-dimensional nanostructures above different detectors have different feature depths.
12. The optical sensing device of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional nanostructure includes a plurality of nanopores or nanoparticles dispersed in a supporting medium, the nanopores or nanoparticles being non-uniform in size, the nanopores or nanoparticles having a refractive index different from a refractive index of the supporting medium in the wavelength range of the incident light to be detected.
13. The optical sensing device of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional nanostructure includes:
a nanostructure forming a spectral filter; and
a layer of homogenizer over the spectral filter, formed of a dielectric material and having a surface roughness comparable to the wavelength range of the incident light to be detected.
14. The optical sensing device of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional nanostructure includes a spectral bandpass filter.
15. The optical sensing device of claim 1, comprising a plurality of light intensity detectors and a plurality of three-dimensional nanostructures each integrated above a corresponding one of the plurality of light intensity detectors,
wherein the three-dimensional nanostructure for each light intensity detector includes a spectral bandpass filter, and wherein the spectral bandpass filter for different detectors have different spectral transmission ranges.
16. The optical sensing device of claim 1, comprising a plurality of light intensity detectors disposed adjacent to each other and a plurality of three-dimensional nanostructures each integrated above a corresponding one of the plurality of light intensity detectors,
wherein each nanostructure includes at least a first nanostructure layer and a second nanostructure layer, wherein the first nanostructure layers for different light intensity detectors are configured to have different spectral responses to an incident light, and the second nanostructure layers for different light intensity detectors are configured to have different responses to an angle, phase and/or polarization of the incident light.
17. The optical sensing device of claim 1, comprising a plurality of light intensity detectors disposed adjacent to each other and a plurality of three-dimensional nanostructures each integrated above a corresponding one of the plurality of light intensity detectors,
the optical sensing device further comprising: a lenslet array disposed above the plurality of nanostructures, the lenslet array having a pitch larger than a pitch of the plurality of light intensity detectors; and
a transparent optical medium disposed in a space between the plurality of nanostructures and the lenslet array.
18. An optical sensing device comprising:
a plurality of light intensity detectors disposed adjacent to each other; and
a plurality of nanostructures each integrated above a corresponding one of the plurality of light intensity detectors, wherein the nanostructures for different light intensity detectors have different feature sizes and locations, and wherein the nanostructure for each light intensity detector has an intrinsic anisotropy which includes either an anisotropy in geometries of the nanostructure or an anisotropy in a material that forms the nanostructure or both, and the nanostructures for different light intensity detectors have different intrinsic anisotropies.
19. The optical sensing device of claim 18, wherein the nanostructure for each light intensity detector has a defined geometric orientation, and wherein the nanostructures for different light intensity detector have different geometric orientations.
20. The optical sensing device of claim 18, wherein the nanostructure for each light intensity detector is formed of a compound material containing a plurality of structural units dispersed in a supporting medium, the structural units being conducting nanowires, semi-conducting nanowires, polarized molecules, or chiral molecules, and wherein orientations of the structural units are different in the compound material for different light intensity detectors.
21. The optical sensing device of claim 18, further comprising:
a lenslet array disposed above the plurality of nanostructures, the lenslet array having a pitch larger than a pitch of the plurality of light intensity detectors; and
a transparent optical medium disposed in a space between the plurality of nanostructures and the lenslet array.
22. An optical sensing device comprising: a plurality of light intensity detectors disposed adjacent to each other within an area; and a plurality of nanostructures each integrated above a corresponding one of the plurality of light intensity detectors,
wherein light intensity detectors includes a first group of light intensity detectors located in a first region of the area and a second group of light intensity detectors located in a second region of the area,
wherein the nanostructures for different ones of the second group of light intensity detectors are configured to have different spectral responses to an incident light and low sensitivities to an angle of the incident light, and the nanostructures for different ones of the first group of light intensity detectors are configured to have different responses to the angle of the incident light.
23. The optical sensing device of claim 22, wherein the first region is a central region and the second region is a peripheral region.
24. An optical sensing device comprising:
a plurality of light intensity detectors disposed adjacent to each other;
a plurality of nanostructures each integrated above a corresponding one of the plurality of light intensity detectors,
wherein the plurality of light intensity detectors and corresponding nanostructures form an array of identical subunits, each subunit including an array of light intensity detectors and corresponding nanostructures, wherein within each subunit, the nanostructures for different light intensity detectors are different;
a lenslet array disposed above the plurality of nanostructures, the lenslet array having a pitch larger than a pitch of the plurality of subunits in the array of subunits; and
a transparent optical medium disposed in a space between the plurality of nanostructures and the lenslet array.
25. The optical sensing device of claim 24, wherein the nanostructures are three-dimensional nanostructures.
</claims>
</document>
