<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H02J13/00,H02J3/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARASHAR, MANU
SRINIVASAN, RADHAKRISHNAN
WANG, HONGGANG
YAN WEIZHONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65576678
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED MODEL VALIDATION SYSTEM FOR ELECTRICAL GRID
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a system and method for automated power system model validation. The system can detect a disturbance on an electrical grid, identify sensors that are near the disturbance, correlate the sensors to a subsystem on the grid, and perform a power system model validation for the subsystem. In one example, the method may include in response to an event on an electrical grid, identifying a PMU of the electrical grid based on a geographical location of the event, mapping the identified PMU to a power generation system on the electrical grid based on a tag of the identified PMU and a tag of the power generation system, retrieving a power system model of the power generation system, and triggering a validation determination of the power system model of the power generation system based on event data sensed by the identified PMU.
</abstract>

<claims>
IN THE CLAIMS:
1. A computing system comprising:
a storage configured to store information about an event on an electrical grid; and a processor configured to, in response to the event on the electrical grid being detected, identity·' a phasor measurement unit (PMU) of the electrical grid based on a geographical location of the event, map the identified PMU to a power system node on the electrical grid based on a tag of the identified PMU and a tag of the power system node, and retrieve a power system model of the power system node from a repository,
wherein the processor is further configured to trigger a validation determination of the power system model based on event data sensed by the identified PMU.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to detect the event on the electrical grid based on a disturbance in one or more of power, voltage, and current, frequency and phase angle.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to identity' one or more PMUs affected by the event based on a disturbance impact factor at the one or more PMUs being greater than a predetermined threshold.
4. The computing system of claim 3, wherein the processor is configured to adaptively update the predetermined threshold based on a parameter change in a calibrated result.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine a similarity between a name of the identified PMU and respective names of a plurality' of power system nodes on the electrical grid, and map the identified PMU to a power system node having a name that is most similar to the name of the identified PMU.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to autotag map a generator name and a substation name between a PMU point of interest measurement and EMS measurement, based on term and contextual information of terms which describe the name of a PMU, a generator and a substation.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein, in response to the triggering, the processor is further configured to determine whether the power system model of the power system node is to be calibrated based on a simulation of a default parameters of the power system model with respect to the event data sensed by the identified PMU.
8. The computing system of claim 7, wherein, in response to determining the power system model should be calibrated, the processor is configured to identify changes in values to one or more parameters of the power system model and output the identified changes in values for display via a user interface.
9. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the power system model of the power system node comprises one or more of a representation of transmission system components on the electrical grid, a representation of power generating components on the electrical grid, and a load representation at various locations on the electrical grid.
10. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to connect to an expert system including a database and inference engine.
11. The computing system of claim 10, wherein the database stores calibrated results, associated events, naming convention rules, naming convention special cases, and thresholds for equipment.
12. The computing system of claim 10, wherein the inference engine queries a calibrated case and a reuse subsystem, analyzes parameter changes for a unit and adjusts a threshold for equipment selection based on disturbance impact factor, provide rules, know edge base and learning algorithms for tag matching, and provides initial values to accelerate model validation and calibration.
13. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to automatically map the identified PMU to the powrer system node based on a learning mechanism which learns from user input and historical tag mapping data.
14. A method comprising:
in response to an event on an electrical grid, identifying a phasor measurement unit (PMU) of the electrical grid based on a geographical location of the event;
mapping the identified PMU to a power system node on the electrical grid based on a tag of the identified PMU and a tag of the power system node;
retrieving a power system model of the power system node; and
triggering a validation determination of the power system model of the power system node based on event data sensed by the identified PMU.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising detecting the event on the electrical grid based on a disturbance in one or more of power, voltage, and current.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the identify ing comprises identifying one or more PMUs affected by the event based on a disturbance impact factor at the one or more PMUs being greater than a predetermined threshold.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the mapping comprises determining a similarity between a name of the identified PMU and respective names of a plurality of power system nodes on the electrical grid, and mapping the identified PMU to a power system node having a name that is most similar to the name of the identified PMU.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein the mapping comprises automated tag mapping a name of the identified PMU to a name of the power system node defined by an energy management system (EMS).
19. The method of claim 14, wherein the mapping comprises auto-tag mapping a generator name and a substation name between a PMU point of interest measurement and EMS measurement, based on term and contextual information of tenns which describe the name of a PMU, a generator and a substation.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions which when executed by a processor cause a computer to perform a method comprising: in response to an event on an electrical grid, identifying a phasor measurement unit (PMU) ofthe electrical grid based on a geographical location of the event;
mapping the identified PMU to a power system node on the electrical grid based on a tag of the identified PMU and a tag of the power system node;
retrieving a power system model of the power system node; and
triggering a validation determination of the power system model of the power system node based on event data sensed by the identified PMU.
</claims>
</document>
