<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F13/00,G06Q40/00,H04W4/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHORCHECK
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRICKE, LUKAS
PRANGE, JERRY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70774186
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ACTIVITY VALIDATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system for animal population activity verification may include a user device configured to receive one or more chore completion inputs, a barn node configured to identify an interaction between the barn node and the user device, and a barn hub communicatively coupled to the barn node. In embodiments, the barn hub is configured to: identify a spatial relationship between the barn hub and the user device; receive identified interaction data; and receive the one or more chore completion inputs, in embodiments, the system further includes a server configured to: receive the one or more chore completion inputs, the identified interaction data, and identified spatial relationship data; store a transaction log in memory; and identify one or more incomplete chores of the list of chores based on at least one of the one or more chore completion inputs, the identified interaction data, and the identified spatial relationship data.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed:
1. A system, comprising:
a user device associated with a user, the user device configured to receive one or more chore completion inputs indicative of a completion of one or more chores of a list of chores;
a barn node configured to identify an interaction between the barn node and the user device;
a barn hub communicatively coupled to the barn node, the barn hub configured to:
identify a spatial relationship between the barn hub and the user device; receive identified interaction data associated with the identified interaction from the barn node; and
receive the one or more chore completion inputs; and
a server communicatively coupled to the barn hub, the server including one or more processors configured to execute a set of program instructions stored in a memory, the set of program instructions configured to cause the one or more processors to:
receive one or more signals from the barn hub, the one or more signals including the one or more chore completion inputs, the identified interaction data, and identified spatial relationship data associated with the identified spatial relationship;
store a transaction log in the memory, the transaction log including the chore completion inputs, the identified interaction data, and the spatial relationship data; and
identify one or more incomplete chores of the list of chores based on at least one of the one or more chore completion inputs, the identified interaction data, and the identified spatial relationship data.
2. The system of Claim 1 , wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: identify one or more complete chores of the list of chores based on at least one of the chore completion inputs, the identified interaction data, and the identified spatial relationship data
3. The system of Claim 2, wherein identifying one or more complete chores of the list of chores comprises:
determining the one or more chore completion inputs were received by the user device during a time interval of the spatial relationship.
4. The system of Claim 1 , wherein identifying one or more incomplete chores of the list of chores comprises:
determining the one or more chore completion inputs were not received by the user device during a time interval of the spatial relationship.
5. The system of Claim 2, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
identify a positive transaction when each chore of the list of chores has been identified as complete; and
identify a negative transaction when at least one chore of the list of chores has been identified as incomplete.
6. The system of Claim 1 , wherein the barn node comprises at ieast one of a QR code scanner, a capacitive touch sensor, a resistive touch sensor, a biometric sensor, or a mechanical device.
7. The system of Claim 1 , wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
identify one or more encounters between the user and one or more groups of animals based on at Ieast one of the identified spatial relationship data or the identified interaction data.
8. The system of Claim 1 , further comprising a user interface communicatively coupled to a controller, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: transmit one or more signals to the controller, wherein the one or more signals are configured to cause the controller to display one or more alerts indicative of the one or more identified incomplete chores.
9. The system of Claim 1 , wherein the user device is further configured to:
receive one or more mortality inputs from the user.
10. The system of Claim 9, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
identify one or more disease outbreaks based on the one or more mortality inputs.
11. The system of Claim 9, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
identify one or more individuals as potential vectors for spread of disease based on the one more mortality inputs.
12. The system of Claim 9, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
identify one or more groups of animals as being at risk for a disease outbreak based on the one or more mortality inputs.
13. The system of Claim 1 , wherein the barn hub is configured to identify the spatial relationship between the barn hub and the user device when the user device comes within a selected distance of the barn hub or enters a selected geo-fenced area.
14. The system of Claim 1 , wherein the barn node includes one or more sensors configured to acquire sensor readings, the one or more sensors including at least one of a temperature sensor, a pressure sensor, a humidity sensor, a composition sensor, or a light detection and ranging (LIDAR) sensor.
15. The system of Claim 14, wherein the barn hub is configured to receive the sensor readings from the barn node and transmit the sensor readings to the server, wherein the server is configured to store the sensor readings in memory.
16. The system of Claim 1 , wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
receive, from the barn hub, one or more images acquired by one or more imaging devices of the barn node; and
identify one or more characteristics of a group of animals based on the one or more images.
17. The system of Claim 16, wherein identifying one or more characteristics of a group of animals comprises:
generating a machine learning classifier; and
identifying the one or more characteristics of the group of animals with the machine learning classifier.
18. The system of Claim 1 , wherein the one or more processors are further configured to store the transaction log to the blockchain.
19. A system, comprising:
a user device configured to receive one or more chore completion inputs indicative of a completion of one or more chores of a list of chores;
a barn hub configured to:
identify a spatial relationship between the barn hub and the user device; receive identified interaction data associated with an identified interaction between a barn node and the user device; and
receive the one or more chore completion inputs; and
a server communicatively coupled to the barn hub, the server including one or more processors configured to execute a set of program instructions stored in memory, the set of program instructions configured to cause the one or more processors to:
receive one or more signals from the barn node, the one or more signals including the chore completion inputs, the identified interaction data, and identified spatial relationship data associated with the identified spatial relationship;
identify one or more incomplete chores of the list of chores based on at least one of the one or more chore completion inputs, the identified interaction data, and the identified spatial relationship data; and
identify one or more complete chores of the list of chores based on at least one of the one or more chore completion inputs, the identified interaction data, and the identified spatial relationship data.
20. A method for verifying animal population activities, comprising:
identifying a spatial relationship between a barn hub and a user device;
identifying an interaction between a barn node and the user device;
receiving one or more chore completion inputs from a user, the one or more chore completion inputs indicative of a completion of one or more chores of a list of chores associated with the identified spatial relationship; and
identifying one or more incomplete chores of the list of chores based on at least one of the one or more chore completion inputs, identified interaction data associated with the identified interaction, and identified spatial relationship data associated with the identified spatial relationship.
</claims>
</document>
