<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B17/345,H04B17/391,H04W16/10,H04W16/14,H04W72/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KULKARNI, SANTOSH BABAJI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67477687
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROACTIVE INTERFERENCE AVOIDANCE FOR ACCESS POINTS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and computer-readable media are provided for predicting presence of interfering signals on given wireless channel(s) on which an access point is operating and proactively implementing an interference avoidance process. In one aspect of the present disclosure, a method includes determining, by an access point operating according to a first wireless technology and at a first time, that interference from signals of a second technology will occur, at a second time that is later than the first time, on a channel on which the access point is currently operating; selecting, by the access point, an interference avoidance process based on a plurality of factors; and implementing, by the access point, the interference avoidance process such that at the second time the access point is not operating on one or more sub-channels spanning the channel on which the access point is currently operating.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising:
determining, by an access point operating according to a first wireless technology and at a first time, that interference from signals of a second technology will occur, at a second time that is later than the first time, on a channel on which the access point is currently operating;
selecting, by the access point, an interference avoidance process based on a plurality of factors; and
implementing, by the access point, the interference avoidance process such that at the second time the access point is not operating on one or more sub-channels spanning the channel on which the access point is currently operating.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the interference is based on a predictive modeling using past presence of the signals of the second technology on the one or more sub-channels.
3. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the plurality of factors include at least one of availability of preamble puncturing by the access point, other available channels for the access point to switch to and reduction in channel bandwidth.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising:
determining if preamble puncturing is available for the access point; and selecting the preamble puncturing as the interference avoidance process.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein availability of the preamble puncturing is based on a type of the access point.
6. The method of any of claims 3 to 5, wherein, if the preamble puncturing is not available, the method comprises: determining if there are one or more adjacent channels for the access point to switch to, the one or more adjacent channels having a same bandwidth as the channel on which the access point is currently operating; and
selecting one of the one or more adjacent channels for the access point to switch to if the one or more adjacent channels are available.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein, if there is no adjacent channel for the access point to switch to, the method comprises:
determining if there are one or more channels having a lower bandwidth than the channel on which the access point is currently operating; and
selecting one of the one or more channels having the lower bandwidth for the access point to switch to.
8. An access point configured to operate on a channel according to a first wireless technology, the access point being configured to:
determine upcoming interference associated with a second wireless technology on a channel on which the access point is currently operating; and based on at least a type of the access point and availability of other channels for the access point to switch to, select a process to proactively avoid interference between signals of the access point and signals of the second wireless technology.
9. The access point of claim 8, wherein the upcoming interference is determined by querying a machine-learning based classifier configured to predict the upcoming interference based on statistics on presence of the signals of the second technology on the channel.
10. The access point of any of claims 8 to 9, wherein the first wireless technology is WiFi technology and the second wireless technology is Long Term Evolution (LTE) technology.
11. The access point of any of claims 8 to 10, wherein, if the type of the access point and a type of devices connected to the access point are IEEE 802.1 lax, the process is preamble puncturing, whereby the access point is configured to puncture at least one subchannel of a plurality of sub-channels spanning the channel on which the upcoming interference will occur.
12. The access point of any of claims 8 to 11, wherein, if the type of the access point is not IEEE 802.1 lax, the process is one of switching to an adjacent channel for the access point to operate on or switching to a channel having a lower bandwidth than the channel on which the access point is currently operating.
13. The access point of claim 12, further configured to:
determine if there are one or more adjacent channels for the access point to switch to, the one or more adjacent channels having a same bandwidth as the channel on which the access point is currently operating; and
select one of the one or more adjacent channels for the access point to switch to if the one or more adjacent channels are available.
14. The access point of claim 13, wherein the adjacent channel is selected based on at least a quality of service corresponding to a service requested by one or more mobile devices connected to the access point.
15. The access point of claim 13, further configured, if there is no other adjacent channel for the access point to switch to, to:
determine if there are one or more channels having a lower bandwidth than the channel on which the access point is currently operating; and
select one of the one or more channels having the lower bandwidth for the access point to switch to, based on at least a quality of service corresponding to a service requested by one or more mobile devices connected to the access point.
16. One or more computer-readable medium having computer-readable instructions, which when executed by one or more processors of an access point, configure the access point to:
select a current channel for the access point to communicate with at least one mobile device connected thereto using a first wireless technology;
determine upcoming interference from signals of a second wireless technology on the current channel; and
perform one of preamble puncturing or channel switching to proactively avoid the upcoming interference before the upcoming interference occurs.
17. The one or more computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the execution of the computer-readable instructions configure the access point to determine the upcoming interference by querying a machine-learning based classifier configured to predict the upcoming interference based on statistics on presence of the signals of the second technology on the current channel.
18. The one or more computer-readable medium of any of claims 16 to 17, wherein the first wireless technology is WiFi technology and the second wireless technology is Long Term Evolution (LTE) technology.
19. The one or more computer-readable medium of any of claims 16 to 18, wherein, if a type of the access point and devices connected to the access point is IEEE 802.1 lax, the access point is configured to perform the preamble puncturing, whereby the access point is configured to puncture at least one sub-channel of a plurality of sub-channels spanning the current channel on which the upcoming interference will occur.
20. The one or more computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein, if the type of the access point is not IEEE 802.1 lax, the access point is configured to (1) select an adjacent channel having a same bandwidth as the current channel for the access point to operate on or (2) select a channel having a lower bandwidth than the current channel for the access point to operate on.
</claims>
</document>
