<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B07C5/34,B08B13/00,B65G1/04,B65G1/137,B65G43/08,G01N21/90,G06K9/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OCADO INNOVATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CLANCY, TOM
MAKRIS, CHRISTOS
POPOV, IVAYLO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67384961
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AN APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR IMAGING CONTAINERS
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a control unit (100) to control an imaging unit to perform imaging of a tray/container (401). The control unit is further arranged to cause the performance of actions on the container using automated machines and/or directing humans to perform an action. In particular, the present invention provides a control unit arranged to detect the presence of contamination in a container based on an image of the container captured by an imaging unit (201), the control unit comprising a receiving unit (101) arranged to receive an image of the container from the imaging unit. The control unit further comprises a determining unit (102) arranged to determine whether the container is contaminated based on the received image and a commanding unit (103) arranged to, when the determining unit determines that the container is contaminated, direct the container to a cleaning unit (502).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A control unit arranged to detect the presence of contamination in a container based on an image of the container captured by an imaging unit, the control unit comprising:
a receiving unit arranged to receive an image of the container from the imaging unit; a determining unit arranged to determine whether the container is contaminated based on the received image; and
a commanding unit arranged to, when the determining unit determines that the container is contaminated, direct the container to a cleaning unit.
2. The control unit according to Claim 1, wherein the determining unit is further arranged to determine whether the container is uncontaminated based on the received image; and
the commanding unit is further arranged to, when the determining unit determines that the container is uncontaminated, direct the container to a filling unit.
3. The control unit according to any preceding claim, wherein the determining unit is arranged to determine whether the container is contaminated based on a statistical model.
4. The control unit according to any preceding claim, the control unit further comprising a storing unit arranged to store images, captured by the imaging unit, of containers which are contaminated and images, captured by the imaging unit, of containers which are uncontaminated,
wherein the determining unit is arranged to be trained to determine whether the container is contaminated or uncontaminated based on the information stored in the storing unit.
5. The control unit according to any preceding claim, wherein the commanding unit is arranged to command a diverting unit arranged to divert the container.
6. A control unit arranged to detect a product based on an image of the product captured by an imaging unit, the control unit comprising:
an image receiving unit arranged to receive an image of the product from the imaging unit; a determining unit arranged to determine an identity of the product based on the received image; and
a commanding unit arranged to, when the determining unit fails to determine the identity of the product, command an indicating unit to indicate that the determining unit has failed to determine the identity of the product.
7. The control unit according to Claim 6, wherein the commanding unit is arranged to, when the determining unit determines the identity of the product, command the indicating unit to indicate that the determining unit has determined the identity of the product.
8. The control unit according to Claim 6 or Claim 7, wherein the commanding unit is arranged to, when the determining unit determines the identity of the product, command the indicating unit to indicate a number indicative of a number of products to be moved.
9. The control unit according to any of Claims 6 to 8, wherein the determining unit is arranged to determine an identity of the product based on a statistical model.
10. The control unit according to any of Claims 6 to 9, the control unit further comprising: a product identifier receiving unit arranged to receive a product identifier captured from the product; and
a storing unit arranged to store the received image and the received product identifier, wherein the determining unit is arranged to be trained to determine the identity of the product based on information stored in the storing unit.
11. The control unit according to any of Claims 6 to 10, wherein the commanding unit is arranged, when the determining unit fails to determine the identity of the product, command the indicating unit to indicate that the product should have an product identifier captured.
12. A storage system comprising:
a first set of parallel rails or tracks extending in an X-direction, and a second set of parallel rails or tracks extending in a Y-direction transverse to the first set in a substantially horizontal plane to form a grid pattern comprising a plurality of grid spaces;
a plurality of stacks of containers located beneath the rails, and arranged such that each stack is located within a footprint of a single grid space; a transporting device, the transporting device being arranged to selectively move in the X and/or Y directions, above the stacks on the rails and arranged to transport a container;
a cleaning unit; and
a control unit according to any of Claims 1 - 5, wherein the control unit is arranged to image a container received from the transporting device.
13. A storage system comprising:
a first set of parallel rails or tracks extending in an X-direction, and a second set of parallel rails or tracks extending in a Y-direction transverse to the first set in a substantially horizontal plane to form a grid pattern comprising a plurality of grid spaces;
a plurality of stacks of containers located beneath the rails, and arranged such that each stack is located within a footprint of a single grid space;
a transporting device, the transporting device being arranged to selectively move in the X and/or Y directions, above the stacks on the rails and arranged to transport a container;
a picking station arranged to receive a product stored in a container transported by the transporting device; and
a control unit according to any of Claims 6 - 11.
14. The storage system according to claim 12 or claim 13, wherein the transporting device has a footprint that occupies only a single grid space in the storage system, such that a transporting device occupying one grid space does not obstruct a transporting device occupying or traversing the adjacent grid spaces in the X and/or Y directions.
15. A method of detecting the presence of contamination in a container based on an image of the container captured by an imaging unit, the method comprising the steps of:
receiving an image of the container from the imaging unit;
determining whether the container is contaminated based on the received image; and directing the container to a cleaning unit when the determining step determines that the container is contaminated.
16. A method of detecting a product based on an image of the product captured by an imaging unit, the method comprising:
receiving an image of the product from the imaging unit;
determining an identity of the product based on the received image; and commanding, when the determining step fails to determine the identity of the product, an indicating unit to indicate that the determining step has failed to determine the identity of the product.
17. A storage system comprising:
a first set of parallel rails or tracks extending in an X-direction, and a second set of parallel rails or tracks extending in a Y-direction transverse to the first set in a substantially horizontal plane to form a grid pattern comprising a plurality of grid spaces;
a plurality of stacks of containers located beneath the rails, and arranged such that each stack is located within a footprint of a single grid space;
a transporting device, the transporting device being arranged to selectively move in the X and/or Y directions, above the stacks on the rails and arranged to transport a container; and a cleaning unit.
18. The storage system according to Claim 17 further comprising:
a picking station arranged to receive a product stored in a container transported by the transporting device.
19. The storage system according to Claim 17 or Claim 18, wherein the transporting device has a footprint that occupies only a single grid space in the storage system, such that a transporting device occupying one grid space does not obstruct a transporting device occupying or traversing the adjacent grid spaces in the X and/or Y directions.
20. The storage system according to any of Claims 17 - 19, further comprising at least one of an ingress port, an egress port or a bi-directional port, wherein a port is formed by a column of the storage system arranged to be clear of containers and arranged to support the transporting device.
21. The storage system according to Claim 20, wherein the port further comprises sensors arranged to detect the position of a container with respect to the port.
22. The storage system according to any of Claims 17 - 19, further comprising a bi-directional port arranged to: receive a container from the transporting device and allow the container to move to the cleaning unit, and
receive a container from the cleaning unit and allow the transporting device to pick-up a container.
23. The storage system according to Claim 22, wherein the transporting device is arranged to deposit the container at the bi-directional port, raise a gripper plate to permit the onwards movement of the container, wait for the bi-directional port to move a different container into position, lower the gripper plate to grip the different container and receive the different container.
24. The storage system according to any of Claims 17 - 23, wherein the cleaning unit comprises:
a conveyor in-feed;
a de-trashing unit;
a washing unit;
a rinsing unit;
a drying unit; and
a conveyor out-feed.
25. The storage system according to any of Claims 17 - 24, wherein the storage system further comprises:
an in-feed conveyor arranged to connect the cleaning unit to an egress port or a bi direction port of the storage system; and
an out-feed conveyor arranged to connect the cleaning unit to an ingress port or a bi directional port of the storage system.
26. The storage system according to any of Claims 17 - 25, further comprising a controller arranged to record whether a container is used for storing inventory or storing a customer order and disallow a container to switch from storing inventory to storing a customer order, or viceversa, unless it has been cleaned by the cleaning unit.
27. The storage system according to Claim 26, wherein the controller is further arranged to record for each container storing inventory: the elapsed duration since the last wash;
the number of call-outs since the last container wash;
the number of times the container has been picked to empty since the last wash;
the container has been flagged as dirty; and/or
the container contents are specified on a configurable high risk product list.
28. The storage system according to Claim 26 or 27, wherein the controller is further arranged to record for each container storing a customer order:
the elapsed duration since the last wash;
the number of call-outs since the last container wash; and/or
the container has been flagged as dirty.
29. The storage system according to Claim 27 or Claim 28, wherein the controller is further arranged to specify a priority level for each container based on the recorded information, where containers of a first priority level are unable to be used until they are washed,
the controller further arranged to record a log of containers ready to be washed and prioritised based on the specified priority level and the date and time at which wash of the container was requested.
30. The storage system according to any of Claims 27 - 29, wherein the controller is arranged to reset the information about the container once it returns from the cleaning unit.
31. The storage system according to any of Claims 17 - 30, wherein the storage system further comprises a container station arranged to introduce containers to the storage system or remove container from the storage system,
the container station comprises at least one of an ingress port, an egress port or a bi directional port, and
the container station further comprises a scanning unit arranged to scan an identifier located on each container.
32. The storage system according to Claim 31, wherein the container station further comprises an input unit arranged to receive an input of the quantity and type of items of product in the container when being introduced to the storage system.
</claims>
</document>
