<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01M5/00,G05B23/02,G06N20/00,G06Q50/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE INSPECTION TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
GATTU, JAGADISH
OHAD, NIMROD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71731226
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ANOMALY DETECTION FOR PREDICTIVE MAINTENANCE AND DERIVING OUTCOMES AND WORKFLOWS BASED ON DATA QUALITY
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and computer readable storage mediums for performing sensor health monitoring are described. The method includes verifying data quality and suppressing alert generation using machine learning techniques to identify whether two anomalies generated by an asset monitoring system are related. The method can include receiving data characterizing measurement data acquired by a sensor coupled to an industrial asset. An anomalous data sample within the received data can be identified and removed from the anomalous data sample. A new sample of the removed data sample can be estimated using interpolation and the new sample can be assessed. Maintenance analysis can be performed based on the assessed, estimated new sample.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising:
receiving data characterizing measurement data values acquired by a sensor coupled to an industrial asset;
identifying an anomalous data sample within the received data;
removing the anomalous data sample;
estimating, using interpolation, a new sample of the removed data sample; and assessing the estimated new sample.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising
executing a maintenance analysis on the assessed, estimated new sample; and providing a result of the maintenance analysis.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor is affixed to an asset in an oil and gas industrial environment and the data further characterizes a state of health of the asset.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the sensor is included in a sensor health monitoring system associated with the oil and gas industrial environment and the data further characterizes a state of health of the sensor.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the anomalous data sample includes applying a data validation rule to the received data, the data validation rule configured to verify the quality of the received data and to generate an alert in response to the anomalous data sample failing the data validation rule.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the data validation rule verifies a datatype of the measurement data values, a rate of change of the measurement data values, an empty data value within the measurement data values, a presence of repeating measurement data values, and/or an absence of three or more measurement data values.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein estimating a new sample of the removed data sample is performed based on linear, cubic, spline, multiple imputation, k-nearest neighbors, gradient boosting, and/or random forest data estimation.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein assessing the estimated new sample includes evaluating a fit of the estimated new sample with respect to a dataset of known measurement data values, the fit determined based on applying an f-test, a t-test, a z-test, and/or one or more pre-determined thresholds.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein responsive to determining the fit of the estimated new sample fails the tests or is not within the one or more pre-determined thresholds, generating an alert including at least one tag identifying the failing test or failing threshold.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the maintenance analysis is executed on the assessed, estimated new sample based on the at least one tag.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the generation of alerts is suppressed based on evaluating the alert and the fit using one or more machine learning models trained in a machine learning process utilizing historical measurement data values associated with the industrial asset as training data for the one or more machine learning models.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the one or more machine learning models are further configured to generate a combined alert responsive to determining the fit of two or more estimated new samples fail one or more tests or thresholds identified as failing previously, wherein the two or more estimated new samples failing the one or more similar tests or thresholds include identical failure patterns.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the one or more machine learning models can be recalibrated and updated based on the fit of two or more estimated new samples failing one or more tests or thresholds, wherein the training data can include false positive results of the maintenance analysis.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein providing the result of the maintenance analysis includes providing the alert and the at least one tag in a display.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising, modifying an operation of the industrial asset based on executing the maintenance analysis on the assessed, estimated new sample.
16. A system comprising:
a data processor, a display, a controller, and a memory storing non-transitory, computer-readable instructions, which when executed cause the data processor to perform operations including
receiving data characterizing measurement data values acquired by a sensor communicatively coupled to an industrial asset, the sensor generating measurement data values,
identifying an anomalous data sample within the received data, removing the anomalous data sample,
estimating, using interpolation, a new sample of the removed data sample, and assessing the estimated new sample.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the data processor is further configured to perform operations including
executing a maintenance analysis on the assessed, estimated new sample, and providing a result of the maintenance analysis.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the sensor is affixed to an asset in an oil and gas industrial environment and the data further characterizes a state of health of the asset.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the sensor is included in a sensor health monitoring system associated with the oil and gas industrial environment and the data further characterizes a state of health of the sensor.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein identifying the anomalous data sample includes applying a data validation rule to the received data, the data validation rule configured to verify the quality of the received data and to generate an alert in response to the anomalous data sample failing the data validation rule.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the data validation rule verifies a datatype of the measurement data values, a rate of change of the measurement data values, an empty data value within the measurement data values, a presence of repeating measurement data values, and/or an absence of three or more measurement data values.
22. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium containing program instructions, which when executed by at least one data processor causes the at least one data processor to perform operations comprising:
receiving data characterizing measurement data values acquired by a sensor communicatively coupled to an industrial asset,
identifying an anomalous data sample within the received data, removing the anomalous data sample,
estimating, using interpolation, a new sample of the removed data sample, assessing the estimated new sample,
executing a maintenance analysis on the assessed, estimated new sample, providing a result of the maintenance analysis via a display, and controlling, via a controller coupled to the at least one data processor and the sensor, an operation of the industrial asset based on the result of the maintenance analysis.
</claims>
</document>
