<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B18/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARDIONOMIC
</assignee>

<inventors>
WALDHAUSER, STEVEN
OLSON, DAVID
ESKURI, ALAN
MOLNAR, GABRIELA
KERKOW, TODD
KENNEFICK, MICHELLE
HER, JON
GOEDEKE, STEVEN
THORSTENSON, CHAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69525754
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AFFECTING CARDIAC CONTRACTILITY AND/OR RELAXATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system for application of neurostimulation includes an outer sheath, an elongate inner member in the outer sheath and movable relative to the outer sheath. The inner lumen has a distal end. An expandable member is coupled to the distal end of the inner member and is in the outer sheath. The expandable member is self-expanding upon from a compressed state in the outer sheath to an expanded state out of the outer sheath. The expandable member includes a distal portion including a plurality of wires woven together and a proximal portion including the plurality of wires extending parallel to a longitudinal axis. The system includes a plurality of electrode assemblies outward of the expandable member and circumferentially spaced around the expandable member. Each electrode assembly is coupled to two of the wires extending parallel to the longitudinal axis. Each electrode assembly includes a plurality of longitudinally-spaced electrodes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A partially woven expandable member for supporting an electrode array, the expandable member being self-expanding between a compressed state and an expanded state, the expandable member comprising:
a proximal end;
a distal end;
a longitudinal axis;
a distal segment comprising a plurality of wires, each wire of the plurality of wires having a bend including a wire segment on each side of the bend,
the bends defining the distal end of the expandable member, the wire segments woven from the distal end of the expandable member towards the proximal end of the expandable member; and a proximal segment proximal to the distal segment, the proximal segment comprising the plurality of wires,
the plurality of wires extending parallel to the longitudinal axis, half of the wires of the plurality of wires being truncated distal to the proximal end of the expandable member and an other half of the wires of the plurality of wires defining the proximal end of the expandable member,
the other half of the wires of the plurality of wires bending towards the longitudinal axis to form spokes and bending parallel to the longitudinal axis for attachment to an elongate member.
2. The expandable member of Claim 1, wherein the distal segment comprises a first portion having a braid property and a second portion having a second braid property different than the first braid property.
3. The expandable member of Claim 2, wherein the first braid property comprises braid angle and the second braid property comprises braid angle, and wherein the second braid angle is greater than the first braid angle.
4. The expandable member of Claim 1, wherein the distal segment has a consistent braid angle.
5. The system of Claim 1, wherein end portions of the plurality of wires in the proximal segment are positioned in side-by-side pairs parallel to the longitudinal axis.
6. The system of Claim 5, further comprising polymer tubing covering at least a portion of each pair of side-by-side wires.
7. The system of Claim 5, wherein one end portion of each pair of side-byside wires is truncated distal to a proximal end of the expandable member, and wherein an other end portion of each pair of side-by-side wires extends radially inwardly to a proximal hub system to form the spokes.
8. The expandable member of Claim 1, wherein the spokes are perpendicular to the longitudinal axis.
9. A catheter system comprising:
a distal portion configured to be inserted into vasculature of a subject, the distal portion comprising:
the expandable member of any one of Claims 1 to 8; and a plurality of electrode assemblies.
10. The system of Claim 9, wherein the other half of the wires of the plurality of wires extends to a proximal hub system.
11. The system of Claim 10, wherein the proximal hub system comprises: an outer band;
an inner band radially inward of the outer band; and
an adapter including a first longitudinal segment radially inward of the outer band and a second longitudinal segment radially inward of the inner band, the other end portions of the wires radially inward of the inner band.
12. The system of Claim 10, wherein the proximal hub system comprises: a metal outer band;
a polymer adapter inward of the outer band and comprising:
a distal segment comprising a plurality of radial protrusions, a channel between pairs of radial protrusions of the plurality of radial protrusions configured to accept one wire of the other half of the wires of the plurality of wires; and
a proximal segment proximal to the distal segment of the polymer adapter, the proximal segment of the polymer adapter free of radial protrusions;
a central lumen extending through the distal segment of the polymer adapter and the proximal segment of the polymer adapter; and a metal inner band around the proximal segment of the polymer adapter and inside the outer band, an arcuate space between the inner band and the proximal segment of the polymer adapter configured to accept the other half of the wires of the plurality of wires, at least one of the inner band or the outer band being radiopaque.
13. The system of Claim 9, further comprising:
an outer sheath; and
an inner member radially inward of the outer sheath, the hub system coupled to the inner member.
14. The system of Claim 13, wherein the outer sheath is configured to maintain the expandable member in a compressed state.
15. The system of Claim 14, wherein the expandable member is configured to expand from the compressed state towards the expanded state upon relative longitudinal movement of the outer sheath proximally to the inner member and wherein the expandable member is configured to compress towards the compressed state upon relative longitudinal movement of the outer sheath distally to the inner member.
16. The system of Claim 13, wherein the inner member comprises:
an elongate tube comprising a sidewall around a lumen;
a first radiopaque marker;
a second radiopaque marker distal to the first radiopaque marker;
a first port through the sidewall, the first port proximate to the first radiopaque marker; and
a second port through the sidewall, the second port distal to the first port, the second port proximate to the second radiopaque marker, the second port circumferentially spaced from the first port,
the system comprising:
a first pressure sensor in fluid communication with the first port; and
a second pressure sensor in fluid communication with the second port.
17. The system of Claim 9, wherein each of the plurality of electrode assemblies comprises:
a first insulating layer; a second insulating layer;
a plurality of electrodes between the first insulating layer and the second insulating layer; and
a plurality of conductors between the first insulating layer and the plurality of electrodes, each of the plurality of conductors electrically connected to one of the plurality of electrodes.
18. The system of Claim 17, wherein the first insulating layer comprises the beveled surface.
19. The system of Claim 17, wherein the second insulating layer comprises the beveled surface.
20. The system of Claim 17, wherein at least one of the first insulating layer and the second insulating layer has a shore hardness between 55D and 63D.
21. The system of Claim 17, wherein the first insulating layer and the second insulating layer have a collective thickness between 0.004 inches (approx. 0.1 mm) and 0.012 inches (approx. 0.3 mm).
22. The system of Claim 17, wherein at least one of the plurality of electrodes is recessed in the second insulating layer.
23. The system of any Claim 17, wherein at least one of the plurality of electrodes is flat.
24. The system of Claim 17, wherein at least one electrode of the plurality of electrodes comprises a distal tab coupled to a conductor on a side opposite an active surface of the electrode.
25. The system of Claim 17, wherein at least one of the plurality of electrodes comprises an obround shape comprising:
a first semicircular portion;
a second semicircular portion; and
a rectangular portion longitudinally between the first semicircular portion and the second semicircular portion.
26. The system of Claim 25, wherein a ratio of a length of the rectangular portion to a diameter of the first and second semicircular portions is between 1:3 and 3: 1.
27. The system of Claim 9, wherein the plurality of electrodes are on a first side of a plane intersecting the longitudinal axis of the expandable member.
28. The system of Claim 27, further comprising a radiopaque marker on a second side of the plane.
29. The system of Claim 9, wherein each of the plurality of electrode assemblies comprises:
a first insulating layer comprising a tube having an open proximal end and an open distal end;
a second insulating layer coupled to the first insulating layer, the first insulating layer and the second insulating layer forming a channel in fluid communication with the tube, the channel having a closed proximal end and a closed distal end;
a plurality of electrodes between the first insulating layer and the second insulating layer, each electrode of the plurality of electrodes having an obround shape and comprising a proximal tab and a distal tab; and
a plurality of conductors in the channel, each conductor of the plurality of conductors electrically connected to an inner side of the distal tab of one electrode of the plurality of electrodes.
30. The system of Claim 9, wherein the plurality of electrode assemblies circumferentially nest when the expandable member is in the compressed state.
31. The system of Claim 9, wherein the plurality of electrode assemblies are shaped like a parallelogram when the expandable member is in the compressed state.
32. The system of Claim 9, further comprising a nose distal to the expandable member, the nose comprising:
a distal segment comprising a plurality of protrusions at least partially defining a plurality of channels; and
a proximal segment free of protrusions.
33. An electrode assembly configured to be coupled to an expandable structure and to apply electrical neurostimulation; the assembly comprising:
a first insulating layer comprising a tube having an open proximal end and an open distal end;
a second insulating layer coupled to the first insulating layer, the first insulating layer and the second insulating layer forming a channel in fluid communication with the tube, the channel having a closed proximal end and a closed distal end; a plurality of electrodes between the first insulating layer and the second insulating layer, each electrode of the plurality of electrodes having an obround shape and comprising a proximal tab and a distal tab; and
a plurality of conductors in the channel, each conductor of the plurality of conductors electrically connected to an inner side of the distal tab of one electrode of the plurality of electrodes.
34. The assembly of Claim 33, wherein the first insulating layer comprises the beveled surface.
35. The assembly of Claim 33, wherein the second insulating layer comprises the beveled surface.
36. The assembly of Claim 33, wherein at least one of the first insulating layer and the second insulating layer has a shore hardness between 55D and 63D.
37. The assembly of Claim 33, wherein the first insulating layer and the second insulating layer have a collective thickness between 0.004 inches (approx. 0.1 mm) and 0.012 inches (approx. 0.3 mm).
38. The system of any one of Claims 33 to 37, wherein at least one electrode of the plurality of electrodes comprises a distal tab coupled to a conductor on a side opposite an active surface of the electrode.
39. The system of Claim 38, wherein at least one of the plurality of electrodes comprises an obround shape comprising:
a first semicircular portion;
a second semicircular portion; and
a rectangular portion longitudinally between the first semicircular portion and the second semicircular portion.
40. The system of Claim 39, wherein a ratio of a length of the rectangular portion to a diameter of the first and second semicircular portions is between 1:3 and 3: 1.
41. A system for application of neurostimulation through an anatomical vessel, the system comprising:
an outer sheath;
an elongate inner member in the outer sheath and movable relative to the outer sheath, the inner lumen having a distal end;
an expandable member coupled to the distal end of the inner member and in the outer sheath, the expandable member being self-expanding upon from a compressed state in the outer sheath to an expanded state out of the outer sheath, the expandable member having a longitudinal axis, the expandable member comprising:
a distal portion comprising a plurality of wires woven together to form a plurality of cells; and
a proximal portion proximal to the distal portion, the proximal portion comprising the plurality of wires extending parallel to the longitudinal axis; and
a plurality of electrode assemblies outward of the expandable member and circumferentially spaced around the expandable member, each electrode assembly of the plurality of electrode assemblies coupled to two said wires extending parallel to the longitudinal axis, each electrode assembly of the plurality of electrode assemblies comprising a plurality of longitudinally-spaced electrodes facing away from the expandable member.
42. A system for application of neurostimulation, the system comprising: an outer sheath;
an elongate inner member in the outer sheath and movable relative to the outer sheath;
an expandable member coupled to the inner member, the expandable member being self-expanding upon from a compressed state in the outer sheath to an expanded state out of the outer sheath; and
a plurality of electrode assemblies outward of the expandable member and circumferentially spaced around the expandable member, each electrode assembly of the plurality of electrode assemblies having a proximal end and a distal end, the plurality of electrode assemblies forming a parallelogram shape wherein a proximal end of each electrode assembly is distal to the proximal end of a circumferentially adjacent electrode assembly and wherein a distal end of each electrode assembly is distal to the distal end of a circumferentially adjacent electrode assembly.
43. A hub system for coupling a plurality of filaments to an elongate member, the system comprising:
a metal outer band;
a polymer adapter inward of the outer band and comprising: a distal segment comprising a plurality of radial protrusions, a channel between pairs of radial protrusions of the plurality of radial protrusions configured to accept a filament of the plurality of filaments; and
a proximal segment proximal to the distal segment, the proximal segment free of radial protrusions;
a central lumen extending through the distal segment and the proximal segment; and
a metal inner band around the proximal segment and inside the outer band, an arcuate space between the inner band and the proximal segment configured to accept the plurality of filaments, at least one of the inner band or the outer band being radiopaque.
44. A catheter for measuring pressure of a body cavity, the catheter comprising:
an outer sheath; and
an inner member in the outer sheath and movable relative to the outer sheath until a segment of the inner member is out of the outer sheath, the inner member comprising:
an elongate tube comprising a sidewall around a lumen;
a first radiopaque marker;
a second radiopaque marker distal to the first radiopaque marker; a first port through the sidewall, the first port proximate to the first radiopaque marker; and
a second port through the sidewall, the second port distal to the first port, the second port proximate to the second radiopaque marker, the second port circumferentially spaced from the first port;
a first pressure sensor in fluid communication with the first port; and a second pressure sensor in fluid communication with the second port.
45. A housing for a filter assembly configured to affect an ECG signal, the housing comprising:
a plurality of electrode pads configured to be coupled to a plurality of ECG leads, the plurality of electrode pads color coded and labeled with at least one of numerical or letter indicia, the plurality of electrodes in positions mimicking positions of electrode pads on a chest and a periphery of a subject, the plurality of electrode pads comprising at least ten electrode pads; and
a plurality of ECG lead inputs configured to be coupled to ECG leads coupled to electrode pads on the subject.
46. A method of monitoring effects of neurostimulation applied to a subject using a neurostimulator for movement of the neurostimulator, the method comprising:
stopping applying the neurostimulation;
after stopping applying the neurostimulation, monitoring a signal for decay to a baseline;
after monitoring the signal for decay to the baseline, resuming the neurostimulation; and
after resuming the neurostimulation, monitoring the signal to detect movement of the neurostimulator.
47. A method of monitoring effects of neurostimulation applied to a subject using a neurostimulator for movement of the neurostimulator, the method comprising:
applying neurostimulation including a parameter at a first value;
modifying the parameter of the neurostimulation to a second value different than the first value and continuing applying the neurostimulation;
after modifying the parameter of the neurostimulation, monitoring a signal;
after monitoring the signal, resuming the neurostimulation including the parameter at the first value; and
after resuming the neurostimulation including the parameter at the first value, monitoring the signal to detect movement of the neurostimulator.
48. A method of manufacturing an electrode assembly, the method comprising:
coupling a conductor to a first side of a tab of an electrode; positioning the electrode between a first insulating layer and a second insulating layer, the first insulating layer comprising a channel, the conductor extending through the channel, the electrode comprising a second side exposed through the second insulating layer.
</claims>
</document>
