<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01K29/00,A61B3/113,A61B5/00,A61B5/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAVAMO LTD
</assignee>

<inventors>
TUOMI, Esmeralda
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67511625
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS FOR MONITORING
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus 100 for monitoring a visible physical or physiological characteristic of an animal 200 is disclosed. The apparatus 100 is attachable to the animal and comprises: an image sensor 102 configured to record and output visual image or video data showing said physical or physiological characteristic; a controller configured to receive the visual image or video data from the image sensor and calculate a parameter representative of the visible physical or physiological characteristic of the animal 200, at least in part, from the image or video data; and at least one output configured to provide at least one output signal that is representative of the parameter, in order to provide monitoring of the visible physical or physiological characteristic by the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for monitoring a visible physical or physiological characteristic of an animal, the apparatus being configured to be attachable to the animal and comprising:
an image sensor, configured to record and output visual image data showing said physical or physiological characteristic;
a controller, configured to receive the visual image data from the image sensor and calculate a parameter representative of the visible physical or physiological characteristic, at least in part, from the image data; and
at least one output, configured to provide at least one output signal that is representative of the parameter, to provide monitoring of the visible physical or physiological characteristic.
2. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the at least one output is or comprises a visual indicator and the output signal is or comprises a visual signal to be provided to a user of the apparatus; and, optionally or preferably, wherein the user is a rider of the animal, and/or wherein the visual indicator is configured, when the apparatus is attached to the animal, to be visible by the user from behind and/or above the animal.
3. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the visual indicator is or comprises a plurality of lighting devices and, optionally, a plurality of LEDs.
4. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the lighting devices are configured to light up at a predetermined brightness, at a predetermined rate, and/or in a predetermined order or sequence that is indicative of the physical or physiological characteristic.
5. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the at least one output is or comprises a data output, and wherein the output signal is or comprises a data signal.
6. An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the data output is or comprises a wireless transmitter.
7. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the controller is configured to identify a region of an animal and, optionally, an eye region of an animal and, further optionally, an eye region of a horse in the image data.
8. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the physical or physiological characteristic is a blink rate of an animal, and the controller is configured to determine a blink rate of the animal.
9. An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the controller is configured to calculate the parameter in dependence on the blink rate.
10. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the apparatus further comprises an attachment piece configured to permit attachment of the apparatus to and removal of the apparatus from an animal accessory and, optionally, to a horse bridle.
11. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the attachment piece comprises a protection element and, optionally, where in the protection element is a cheek pad and, optionally, wherein the cheek pad has a surface roughness of less than 0. lORa (pm).
12. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, further comprising at least one motion sensor, the motion sensor configured to detect movement of the animal and output a movement signal in dependence on the detected movement and, optionally, wherein the at least one motion sensor is or comprises at least one of a gyroscope and an accelerometer.
13. An apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the output signal is output in dependence on the movement signal.
14. The apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the apparatus is configured to be mounted on to an item of animal tack and, optionally, wherein the item of animal tack is a bridle and further optionally, wherein the item of animal tack is a horse bridle.
15. The apparatus according to any preceding claim, wherein the controller is further configured to output a further indicator that is indicative of a state or level of stress or exertion of the animal, the state or level of stress or exertion of the animal being calculated from the parameter representative of the visible physical or physiological characteristic.
16. A system for monitoring a physical or physiological characteristic of an animal, the system comprising the apparatus of any preceding claim and a remote computing apparatus configured to receive the output signal.
17. A method of monitoring a visible physical or physiological characteristic of an animal, the method comprising:
obtaining visual image data showing the physical or physiological characteristic;
processing the visual image data;
determining a parameter that is representative of the visible physical or physiological characteristic, at least in part, from the processed image data; and
outputting at least one output signal that is representative of the parameter and which provides for monitoring of the visible physical or physiological characteristic of an animal.
18. A method according to claim 17, wherein processing the image data comprises identifying an eye of the animal in the image data.
19. A method according to claim 17 or 18, wherein processing the image data further comprises determining a blink rate of an eye of the animal in the image data.
20. A method according to any one of claims 17 to 19 wherein determining a parameter that is representative of the visible physical or physiological characteristic, at least in part from the processed image data comprises calculating a factor comprising comparing a blink rate of an eye of the animal in the image data to a look-up table.
21. A method according to any one of claims 17 to 20, wherein outputting the at least one output signal comprises outputting a visual signal to a local user.
22. A method according to any one of claims 17 to 21, wherein outputting the at least one output signal comprises outputting a data signal.
23. A method according to any one of claims 17 to 22, wherein the method further comprises receiving a movement signal, the movement signal indicative of a movement of the animal.
24. A method according to claim 23, wherein outputting the at least one output signal is done in dependence on the movement signal.
25. A method according to claim 24, wherein determining a parameter that is representative of the visible physical or physiological characteristic at least in part from the processed image data comprises: calculating a factor based, at least in part, on the movement signal and a blink rate of an eye of the animal in the image data; and/or wherein the method further comprises correlating the parameter with the movement signal.
</claims>
</document>
