<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0484,A61B5/16,G06N3/04,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU MINGCHANG
KHODAYARI-ROSTAMABAD, AHMAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68290273
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE FOR RECOGNITION OF MENTAL BEHAVIORAL ATTRIBUTES BASED ON DEEP NEURAL NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device that handles recognition of mental behavioral, affect, emotional, mental states, mental health, or mood-based attributes based on deep neural networks (DNNs), stores a set of EEG signals and a set of bio-signals associated with a subject. The electronic device trains a plurality of first recognition models on a training set of EEG signals and a training set of bio-signals associated with different training subjects. The electronic device trains a second recognition model on a feature vector from output layers of the plurality of first recognition models. The electronic device estimates a plurality of dependency or relationship data by application of the trained plurality of first recognition models on the set of EEG signals and bio-signals. The electronic device identifies a mental behavioral attribute of the subject by application of the trained second recognition model on the plurality of signals and their relationship data.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. An electronic device, comprising:
a memory configured to store a set of electroencephalogram (EEG) signals, a set of different types of bio-signals, and a plurality of user parameters associated with a subject; and
at least one processor configured to:
train a plurality of first recognition models that corresponds to a first plurality of deep neural networks (DNNs), on a training set of EEG signals and a training set of different types of bio-signals associated with a set of training subjects; train a second recognition model that corresponds to a second plurality of deep neural networks (DNNs), on a feature vector from output layers of the plurality of first recognition models;
estimate a plurality of relationship data, which indicate a functional connectivity or a dependency between different regions of a brain and body of the subject, by application of the trained plurality of first recognition models on the set of EEG signals and the set of bio-signals associated with the subject; and
identify a mental behavioral attribute of the subject from a set of mental behavioral attributes, by application of the trained second recognition model on the estimated plurality of measured signals and their relationship data.
2. The electronic device according to claim 1 , wherein the set of EEG signals comprises a first set of EEG signals from a left portion and a second set of EEG signals from a right portion of a cerebral cortex of the brain of the subject.
3. The electronic device according to claim 2, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to capture, through a plurality of EEG electrodes placed on scalp of the subject, the first set of EEG signals from the left portion and the second set of EEG signals from the right portion of the cerebral cortex of the brain.
4. The electronic device according to claim 1 , wherein the at least one processor is further configured to capture, through a plurality of different types of sensors, the set of different types of bio-signals associated with the subject.
5. The electronic device according to claim 4, wherein the plurality of different types of sensors are placed on different body parts of the subject.
6. The electronic device according to claim 5, wherein the plurality of different types of sensors comprises a set of neurophysiological sensors, a set of biosensors, and a set of wearable sensors.
7. The electronic device according to claim 1 , wherein the training set of EEG signals comprises a first training set of EEG signals from a left portion and a second training set of EEG signals from a right portion of a cerebral cortex of the brain of each subject from the set of training subjects.
8. The electronic device according to claim 1 , wherein the at least one processor is further configured to adjust a plurality of weight parameters associated with the plurality of first recognition models and the second recognition model by an iterative application of optimization scheme on the plurality of weight parameters, and wherein the adjustment of the plurality of weight parameters corresponds to a training of the plurality of first recognition models and the second recognition model.
9. The electronic device according to claim 1 , wherein each recognition model of the plurality of first recognition models is separately trained on a specific type of signal from the training set of EEG signals and the training set of bio-signals.
10. The electronic device according to claim 1 , wherein the at least one processor is further configured to receive the output feature vector of the trained plurality of first recognition models and an output feature vector of the trained second recognition model, and wherein the mental behavioral attribute of the subject is identified based on the received output feature vector of the trained plurality of first recognition models and the trained second recognition model.
1 1. The electronic device according to claim 1 , wherein the second recognition model is trained further based on an interconnectivity parameter and a dependency parameter between a first set of mental behavioral attributes of the set of mental behavioral attributes and a second set of mental behavioral attributes of the set of mental behavioral attributes.
12. The electronic device according to claim 1 , wherein the set of mental behavioral attributes comprises a set of affect states, a set of emotional states, a set of mental health conditions, a set of mental states or conditions, a set of psychological states or conditions, and a set of mood-based attributes.
13. The electronic device according to claim 1 , wherein the identification of the mental behavioral attribute is invariant to an effect of lateralization of affect states, gender, and left-handedness, or right-handedness of the subject on the set of EEG signals and the set of bio-signals.
14. The electronic device according to claim 1 , wherein the at least one processor is further configured to map, over a time period, a plurality of mental behavioral attributes of the subject to a plurality of signal samples of the set of EEG signals and the set of different types of bio-signals associated with the subject.
15. The electronic device according to claim 14, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to generate a plurality of blueprint data points, which indicates a correspondence between each of the plurality of mental behavioral attributes of the subject and the plurality of signal samples of the set of EEG signals and the set of biosignals.
16. The electronic device according to claim 15, wherein each of the generated plurality of blueprint data points corresponds to a different mental behavioral attribute of the set of mental behavioral attributes, wherein the processor is further configured to compare each of the plurality of blueprint data points with other blueprint data points of the plurality of blueprint data points, and wherein the mental behavioral attribute of the subject is identified further based on the comparison.
17. The electronic device according to claim 1 , wherein an output layer of the second recognition model acts as a classifier to identify the mental behavioral attribute which has a maximum likelihood among the set of mental behavioral attributes, and wherein the classifier is one of a random forest-based classifier, a support vector machine (SVM)-based classifier, a logistic regression-based classifier, a linear regressionbased classifier, a softmax classifier, a Bayesian estimation network classifier, a deep neural network classifier.
18. The electronic device according to claim 1 , wherein the at least one processor is further configured to evaluate and optimize the trained plurality of recognition models and the trained second model by using a randomly selected training, validation and test data subsets or by application of one or more levels of k-fold cross-validation of the training set of EEG signals and the training set of bio-signals.
19. The electronic device according to claim 1 , wherein the at least one processor is further configured to:
track changes in different mental behavioral attributes of the subject over a time period; and
generate at least a diagnostic report, a prognosis report and a prediction report for the subject, based on the tracked changes.
20. An electronic device, comprising:
a memory configured to store a set of electroencephalogram (EEG) signals, a set of bio-signals, and a plurality of user parameters associated with a subject; and
at least one processor configured to:
input the set of EEG signals and the set of bio-signals associated with the subject to a plurality of first recognition models pre-trained on a training set of EEG signals and a training set of different types of bio-signals;
estimate a plurality of relationship data, which indicate a functional connectivity or a dependency between different regions of a brain and body of the subject, by application of the plurality of first recognition models on the set of EEG signals and the set of bio-signals associated with the subject; and
identify a mental behavioral attribute of the subject from a set of mental behavioral attributes, by application of a second recognition model on the estimated plurality of input signals and their relationship data.
21. A method, comprising:
in an electronic device that comprises a memory, and at least one processor: storing, by the memory, a set of electroencephalogram (EEG) signals, a set of bio-signals, and a plurality of user parameters associated with a subject;
training, by the at least one processor, a plurality of first recognition models that corresponds to a first plurality of deep neural networks (DNNs), on a training set of EEG signals and a training set of bio-signals associated with a set of training subjects;
training, by the at least one processor, a second recognition model that corresponds to a second plurality of deep neural networks (DNNs), on a feature vector from output layers of the plurality of first recognition models;
estimating, by the at least one processor, a plurality of relationship data, which indicate a functional connectivity or a dependency between different regions of a brain and body of the subject, by application of the trained plurality of first recognition models on the set of EEG signals and the set of bio-signals associated with the subject; and
identifying, by the at least one processor, a mental behavioral attribute of the subject from a set of mental behavioral attributes, by application of the trained second recognition model on the estimated plurality of signals and their relationship data.
</claims>
</document>
