<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B19/16,E21B41/00,E21B47/00,G06Q10/06,H04L12/16,H04W4/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MCCOY GLOBAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHISM, RICHARD
DENG BING
SONNIER, GARETH DUSTIN
DMITRIEV, Andrei
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72661552
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR MONITORING, COMMUNICATING AND CONTROLLING COMPLETION RELATED OPERATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A method is provided for remote monitoring, decision making and operation of one or more parameters of on-site well operation equipment. The method includes collecting data corresponding to the at least one parameter by one or more on-site sensor modules assigned to the equipment for monitoring joint make-up of tubing and casing connections; transmitting the collected data to an on-site make-up monitoring system; transmitting said collected data from the on-site make-up monitoring system to a cloud or edge-based system for storage, display and analysis; accessing collected day by one or more users via one or more dedicated remote portals for review or analysis; and transmitting instructions from any one or more users via the remote portal and cloud or edge-based system back to the on-site make-up monitoring system for modifying the operation of the equipment within predefined limits. A system for remote monitoring, decision making and operation of one or more parameters of on-site well operation equipment is further provided as well as a calibration system and a calibration method for calibrating mechanized well operation equipment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for remote monitoring, decision making and operation of one or more parameters of on-site well operation equipment, comprising: i) collecting data corresponding to the one or more parameter by one or more on site sensor modules assigned to the on-site well operation equipment for monitoring joint make-up of tubing and casing connections;
ii) transmitting the collected data to an on-site make-up monitoring system;
iii) transmitting said collected data from the on-site make-up monitoring system to a cloud or edge-based system for storage, display and analysis;
iv) accessing collected day by one or more users via one or more dedicated remote portals for review or analysis; and
v) transmitting instructions from any one or more of the one or more users via the remote portal and the cloud or edge-based system back to at least the on-site make-up monitoring system for modifying the operation of the well operation equipment within predefined limits.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the well operation equipment is oil field tubular handling equipment. 3. The method according to claim 1 , further comprising storing the collected data in a memory storage means of the cloud or edge-based system.
4. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the data from the sensor module is transmitted to the on-site make-up monitoring system via wired or wireless
transmission. 5. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the data is transmitted from the on-site make-up monitoring system to the cloud or edge-based system via a wired or wireless transmission means.
6. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the data is transmitted from multiple sensor modules on one or more pieces of well operation equipment to the on-site makeup monitoring system. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the data is stored from all sensor modules to provide a complete make-up history of all mechanized well operation equipment.
8. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the data is displayed and/or stored from a plurality of sensor modules by the cloud or edge-based system. 9. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the on-site make-up monitoring system provides on-site access to the collected data or the received instructions.
10. A method for remote monitoring, decision making and operation of one or more parameters of on-site well operation equipment, comprising:
i) collecting data corresponding to the one or more parameters by on-site sensor modules assigned to the well operation equipment for monitoring joint make-up of tubing and casing connections;
ii) transmitting the collected data to an on-site make-up monitoring system;
iii) transmitting said collected data from the on-site make-up monitoring system to a cloud or edge-based system for analysis; and
vi) transmitting instructions from the cloud or edge-based system back to at least the on-site make-up monitoring system for modifying the operation of the well operation equipment within predefined limits.
1 1 . A system for remote monitoring, decision making and operating of one or more parameters of on-site well operation equipment, said system comprising: i) an on-site make-up monitoring system connected to an on-site sensor module of the mechanized well operation equipment for receiving and processing sensor data from the on-site sensor module; and ii) a cloud or edge-based system, remotely accessible by one or more users via dedicated remote portals, said cloud or edge-based system being connected with said on-site make-up monitoring system for storing, displaying and analyzing received data and for communicating decisions to the on-site make-up monitoring system for operation of the on-site mechanized well operation equipment. 12. The system according to claim 1 1 , wherein said mechanized well operation equipment is one of a group consisting of: tubing or casing tongs, drill pipe tongs, remote operated tongs, tong position systems, make-up and break out tools, systems for automatic tubular handling and running, connection leak detecting systems, slips, spiders, pressure control equipment, and packers.
13. The system according to claim 11 , wherein said sensor module is one of a group consisting of: torque sensor module, turn counter sensor module, pressure sensor module, temperature sensor module and flow sensor module.
14. The system according to claim 1 1 wherein the one or more remote and dedicated portals are accessible on a device selected from a computer, a smart phone, a tablet or other device connectable to the cloud or edge.
15. The system according to claim 11 , wherein multiple sensor modules on one or more pieces of well operation equipment are connected to the on-site make-up monitoring system. 16. A calibration system for increasing certainty in the calibration of mechanized well operation equipment, comprising: i) an on-site make-up monitoring system connected to an on-site sensor module of the mechanized equipment, for receiving and processing sensor data; and, ii) a cloud or edge-based system connected with said on-site make-up monitoring system and comprising doud or edge-based calibration certainty algorithms for analyzing sensor data; wherein the cloud or edge-based algorithms provide output metrics with limits for statistical confidence and increased certainty that sensor data align with the calibration state of the equipment during operation. 17. A calibration method for mechanized well operation equipment, comprising: i) installing and initially calibrating the equipment ii) collecting calibration and operation data from the equipment via an on-site make-up monitoring system iii) transmitting said data to a cloud or edge-based system; iv) recalibrating equipment to confirm initial calibration validity; v) performing via a cloud or edge-based system applied machine learning to validate calibration; vi) updating an applied machine learning model with updated machine learning coefficients; and vii) activating the model to provide a Certainty Index with respect to calibration state of the well operation equipment operation.
</claims>
</document>
