<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60R21/015
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARRARO, BRUNO, D.
JOHNSON, JAMES B.
MAGNA SEATING
YANG, HANLONG
</assignee>

<inventors>
CARRARO, BRUNO
JOHNSON, JAMES
YANG, HANLONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70919096
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR OCCUPANT CLASSIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
An occupant classification system for a seat assembly. The seat assembly includes a seat cushion and a seat back. The system comprises a plurality of sensors, an algorithm, a posture classifier and a weight classification system. Each of the plurality of sensors measures a force applied to the seat cushion and/or seat back by an occupant of the seat assembly. The algorithm monitors a compensation factor and adjusts the forces measured by the plurality of sensors to compensate for the compensation factor. The posture classifier identifies a posture of the occupant based on distribution of the adjusted forces for each of the plurality of sensors. The weight classification system identifies a weight class of the occupant based on the posture and magnitude of the adjusted forces for each of the plurality of sensors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An occupant classification system for a seat assembly wherein the seat assembly includes a seat cushion and a seat back, the system comprising : a plurality of sensors wherein each of the plurality of sensors measures a force applied to the seat cushion and/or seat back by an occupant of the seat assembly; an algorithm for monitoring a compensation factor and adjusting the forces measured by the plurality of sensors to compensate for the compensation factor; a posture classifier for identifying a posture of the occupant based on distribution of the adjusted forces for each of the plurality of sensors; and a weight classification system for identifying a weight class of the occupant based on the posture and magnitude of the adjusted forces for each of the plurality of sensors.
2. The occupant classification system of claim 1 wherein the compensation factor comprises a vehicle age indicator.
3. The occupant classification system of claim 2 wherein the vehicle age indicator comprises one of ambient temperature, vehicle mileage, engine operating hours and vehicle service information.
4. The occupant classification system of claim 1 wherein the compensation factor comprises a faulty sensor indicator.
5. The occupant classification system of claim 4 wherein the faulty sensor indicator comprises one of an open circuit, a short circuit, a sensor drift and a faulty sensor output.
6. The occupant classification system of claim 5 wherein the algorithm identifies the occupant based on an external input and retrieves a stored weight range for the occupant from memory.
7. The occupant classification system of claim 6 wherein the external input comprises one of a camera, a memory profile and a key.
8. The occupant classification system of claim 4 wherein the algorithm monitors multiple drive cycles under different driving conditions to identify variations in the adjusted forces for each of the plurality of sensors.
9. The occupant classification system of claim 8 wherein the algorithm identifies trends in the adjusted forces for each of the plurality of sensors.
10. The occupant classification system of claim 9 wherein the algorithm determines changes to the trends over time.
11. The occupant classification system of claim 10 wherein the algorithm determines a severity of the faulty sensor indicator.
12. The occupant classification system of claim 1 wherein the compensation factor comprises a seat indicator.
13. The occupant classification system of claim 12 wherein the seat indicator comprises one of a seat height, a seat cushion firmness, a seat back firmness, a seat cover type, a seat cover tension and clothing of the occupant.
14. The occupant classification system of claim 13 wherein the algorithm monitors a road condition indicator, adjusts the posture identified by the posture classifier to compensate for the road condition indicator, and identifies an adjusted weight class of the occupant based on the adjusted posture.
15. The occupant classification system of claim 14 wherein the road condition indicator comprises one of tilt, road vibration, vehicle speed and vehicle acceleration.
16. An occupant classification system for a seat assembly wherein the seat assembly includes a seat cushion and a seat back, the system comprising : a plurality of sensors wherein each of the plurality of sensors measures a force applied to the seat cushion and/or seat back by an occupant of the seat assembly; a posture classifier for identifying a posture of the occupant based on distribution of the forces for each of the plurality of sensors; an algorithm for monitoring a road condition indicator and adjusting the posture identified by the posture classifier to compensate for the road condition indicator; and a weight classification system for identifying a weight class of the occupant based on the adjusted posture and magnitude of the forces for each of the plurality of sensors.
17. The occupant classification system of claim 16 wherein the algorithm adjusts the weight class of the occupant based on the road condition indicator.
18. The occupant classification system of claim 17 wherein the road condition indicator comprises one of tilt, road vibration, vehicle speed and vehicle acceleration.
19. A method associated with classifying an occupant of a seat assembly, wherein the seat assembly includes a seat cushion and a seat back, the method comprising the steps of: measuring a plurality of forces applied by the occupant to the seat cushion and/or seat back; monitoring a compensation factor; adjusting the plurality of forces to compensate for the compensation factor; using the adjusted plurality of forces to identify a posture of the occupant; and using the posture and the adjusted plurality of forces to identify a weight class of the occupant.
20. A method associated with classifying an occupant of a seat assembly, wherein the seat assembly includes a seat cushion and a seat back, the method comprising the steps of: measuring a plurality of forces applied by the occupant to the seat cushion and/or seat back; using the plurality of forces to identify a posture of the occupant; monitoring a road condition indicator; adjusting the posture to compensate for the road condition indicator; and using the adjusted posture and the plurality of forces to identify a weight class of the occupant.
21. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of adjusting the weight class of the occupant based on the road condition indicator.
22. A method for deriving an occupant classification system for a seat assembly, wherein the seat assembly includes a seat cushion and a seat back, the method comprising the steps of: using a probabilistic method to train a posture classifier to differentiate between a plurality of postures; and for each of the plurality of postures, training a weight classification system to identify one of a plurality of weight classes, wherein the step of training the weight classification system comprises the steps of: using a deterministic method to derive a transfer function modeling a measurement of weight class as a function of actual weights; and increasing a slope of the transfer function to optimize the measurement of the weight class,
23. The method of claim 22 wherein the step of training the weight classification system further comprises the steps of: measuring a plurality of forces applied to the seat cushion and/or seat back; and adjusting a weight of one of the plurality of forces based on a location of the force on the seat cushion and/or seat back to optimize the weight classification system.
24. The method of claim 23 further comprising the steps of: monitoring a compensation factor over time; and using the compensation factor over time to adjust the slope of the transfer function to further optimize the measurement of the weight class.
25. The method of claim 24 further comprising the step of using the compensation factor over time to adjust the weight of the one of the plurality of forces to further optimize the weight classification system.
</claims>
</document>
