<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L1/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHATTERJEE, DEBDEEP
MONDAL, BISHWARUP
WANG, GUOTONG
XIONG GANG
ZHANG, YUSHU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70416552
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HANDLING UPLINK TRANSMISSIONS FOR MULTI-TRP OPERATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, devices, and techniques for wireless communications are described. A described technique includes receiving, by a user equipment (UE) from one or more Transmission and Reception Points (TRPs), a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) transmission; determining, by the UE for a physical uplink control channel (PUCCH) carrying hybrid automatic repeat request - acknowledgement (HARQ-ACK), a TRP index in accordance with a control resource set (CORESET) scheduling the PDSCH transmission; and transmitting, by the UE via the PUCCH, HARQ-ACK information based on the receiving of the PDSCH transmission in accordance with the TRP index.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS: 1. A method comprising:
receiving, by a user equipment (UE) from one or more Transmission and Reception Points (TRPs), a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) transmission; determining, by the UE for a physical uplink control channel (PUCCH) carrying hybrid automatic repeat request– acknowledgement (HARQ-ACK), a TRP index in accordance with a control resource set (CORESET) scheduling the PDSCH transmission; and
transmitting, by the UE via the PUCCH, HARQ-ACK information based on the receiving of the PDSCH transmission in accordance with the TRP index. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the TRP index comprises a first index value, wherein the CORESET comprises a first CORESET and a second CORESET, wherein the first CORESET is associated with the first index value, wherein the second CORESET is associated with a second index value, wherein determining the TRP index comprises determining the first index value associated with the first CORESET and determining a second index value associated with the second
CORESET, and wherein transmitting the HARQ-ACK information is responsive to the first index value and the second index value. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein transmitting the HARQ-ACK information comprises:
transmitting first HARQ-ACK information associated with the first
CORESET; and
transmitting second HARQ-ACK information associated with the second CORESET. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the first index value comprises using a default value for the first index value based on the first index value not being provided by a network. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the first index comprises using a CORESET index parameter configured by a radio resource control (RRC) layer.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein transmitting the HARQ-ACK information comprises using the first index value and the second index value for HARQ-ACK codebook construction. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the TRP index is indicated by a
ConfiguredGrantConfig information element provided by a radio resource control (RRC) layer. 8. The method of claim 1, comprising:
transmitting, on a physical uplink control channel (PUCCH), semi-persistent channel state information based on a TRP index configured by a radio resource control (RRC) layer. 9. The method of claim 1, comprising:
transmitting, on a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH), semi-persistent channel state information based on a TRP index configured by a radio resource control (RRC) layer. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the PDSCH transmission comprises receiving transmissions from multiple TRPs.
11. A user equipment (UE) comprising:
one or more processors;
circuitry to wirelessly communicate with a network; and
a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
receiving, via the circuitry from one or more Transmission and Reception Points (TRPs) associated with the network, a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) transmission;
determining, for a physical uplink control channel (PUCCH) carrying hybrid automatic repeat request– acknowledgement (HARQ-ACK), a TRP index in accordance with a control resource set (CORESET) scheduling the PDSCH transmission; and
transmitting, via the circuitry, HARQ-ACK information on the PUCCH based on the receiving of the PDSCH transmission in accordance with the TRP index. 12. The UE of claim 11, wherein the TRP index comprises a first index value, wherein the CORESET comprises a first CORESET and a second CORESET, wherein the first CORESET is associated with the first index value, wherein the second CORESET is associated with a second index value, wherein determining the TRP index comprises determining the first index value associated with the first CORESET and determining a second index value associated with the second CORESET, and wherein transmitting the HARQ-ACK information is responsive to the first index value and the second index value. 13. The UE of claim 12, wherein transmitting the HARQ-ACK information comprises:
transmitting first HARQ-ACK information associated with the first
CORESET; and
transmitting second HARQ-ACK information associated with the second CORESET. 14. The UE of claim 12, wherein determining the first index value comprises using a default value for the first index value based on the first index value not being provided by a network.
15. The UE of claim 12, wherein determining the first index comprises using a CORESET index parameter configured by a radio resource control (RRC) layer. 16. The UE of claim 12, wherein transmitting the HARQ-ACK information comprises using the first index value and the second index value for HARQ-ACK codebook construction. 17. The UE of claim 11, wherein the TRP index is indicated by a
ConfiguredGrantConfig information element provided by a radio resource control (RRC) layer. 18. The UE of claim 11, wherein the operations comprise:
transmitting, on a physical uplink control channel (PUCCH), semi-persistent channel state information based on a TRP index configured by a radio resource control (RRC) layer. 19. The UE of claim 11, wherein the operations comprise:
transmitting, on a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH), semi-persistent channel state information based on a TRP index configured by a radio resource control (RRC) layer. 20. The UE of claim 11, wherein receiving the PDSCH transmission comprises receiving transmissions from multiple TRPs.
</claims>
</document>
