<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/02,G06N3/08,G06T1/40,G06T7/00,G16H30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABOLMAESUMI, PURANG
BEHNAMI, DELARAM
LIAO, ZHIBIN
TSANG, TERESA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71947410
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NEURAL NETWORK IMAGE ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method of facilitating neural network image analysis involves receiving signals representing a set of images, causing at least one neural network function to be applied to the set of images to determine at least one property confidence distribution parameter, and causing a cumulative distribution function defined at least in part by the at least one property confidence distribution parameter to be applied to a plurality of ranges, each range associated with a respective property that may be associated with the set of images, to determine a plurality of property confidences, each of the property confidences representing a confidence that the set of images should be associated with a respective one of the properties. Other methods, systems, and computer-readable media are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1 A computer-implemented method of facilitating neural network image analysis, the method comprising: receiving signals representing a set of images; causing at least one neural network function to be applied to the set of images to determine at least one property confidence distribution parameter; and causing a cumulative distribution function defined at least in part by the at least one property confidence distribution parameter to be applied to a plurality of ranges, each range associated with a respective property that may be associated with the set of images, to determine a plurality of property confidences, each of the property confidences representing a confidence that the set of images should be associated with a respective one of the properties. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the cumulative distribution function includes a Gaussian cumulative distribution function and the at least one property confidence distribution parameter includes a property distribution mean and a property distribution standard deviation.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the cumulative distribution function includes a Laplace cumulative distribution function and the at least one property confidence distribution parameter includes a location and scale parameter for the Laplace cumulative distribution function.
4. The method of any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the set of images includes ultrasound images.
5. The method of any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the properties include at least one clinical parameter related to a subject depicted by the set of images.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the properties include echocardiogram estimated ejection fraction function diagnoses.
7. The method of any claim 5 wherein the properties include a quality assessment of the set of images.
8 The method of any one of claims 1 to 7 further comprising producing signals for causing at least one display to display a representation of at least one of the property confidences.
9. The method of claim 8 further comprising producing signals for causing at least one display to display a representation of the at least one property confidence distribution parameter.
10 The method of any one of claims 1 to 9 further comprising training the at least one neural network function, the training comprising: receiving signals representing a plurality of sets of training images; receiving signals representing expert evaluation properties, each of the expert evaluation properties provided by an expert and associated with one of the sets of training images; and causing the at least one neural network function to be trained using the sets of training images as respective inputs, wherein causing the at least one neural network function to be trained comprises: for each of the sets of training images: causing the at least one neural network function to be applied to the set of training images to determine at least one training property confidence distribution parameter; and causing a training cumulative distribution function defined at least in part by the at least one training property confidence distribution parameter to be applied to a range associated with the expert evaluation property associated with the set of images, to determine a training property confidence representing a confidence that the set of training images should be associated with the expert evaluation property; and causing the at least one neural network function to be updated to reduce a loss, the loss determined based at least in part on the determined training property confidences.
11. A computer-implemented method of training at least one neural network function to facilitate image analysis, the method comprising: receiving signals representing a plurality of sets of training images; receiving signals representing expert evaluation properties, each of the expert evaluation properties provided by an expert and associated with one of the sets of training images; and causing the at least one neural network function to be trained using the sets of training images as respective inputs, wherein causing the at least one neural network function to be trained comprises: for each of the sets of training images: causing the at least one neural network function to be applied to the set of training images to determine at least one property confidence distribution parameter; and causing a cumulative distribution function defined at least in part by the at least one property confidence distribution parameter to be applied to a range associated with the expert evaluation property associated with the set of images, to determine a property confidence representing a confidence that the set of training images should be associated with the expert evaluation property; and causing the at least one neural network function to be updated to reduce a loss, the loss determined based at least in part on the determined property confidences.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein the cumulative distribution function includes a Gaussian cumulative distribution function and the at least one property confidence distribution parameter includes a property distribution mean and a property distribution standard deviation.
13. The method of claim 11 wherein the cumulative distribution function includes a Laplace cumulative distribution function and the at least one property confidence distribution parameter includes a location and scale parameter for the Laplace cumulative distribution function.
14. The method of any one of claims 11 to 13 wherein the set of images includes ultrasound images.
15. The method of any one of claims 11 to 14 wherein the properties include at least one clinical parameter related to a subject depicted by the set of images.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein the properties include echocardiogram estimated ejection fraction function diagnoses.
17. The method of any claim 15 wherein the properties include a quality assessment of the set of images.
18. A system for facilitating ultrasonic image analysis comprising at least one processor configured to perform the method of any one of claims 1 to 17.
19. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon codes which when executed by at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform the method of any one of claims 1 to 17.
20. A system for facilitating neural network image analysis, the system comprising: means for receiving signals representing a set of images; means for causing at least one neural network function to be applied to the set of images to determine at least one property confidence distribution parameter; and means for causing a cumulative distribution function defined at least in part by the at least one property confidence distribution parameter to be applied to a plurality of ranges, each range associated with a respective property that may be associated with the set of images, to determine a plurality of property confidences, each of the property confidences representing a confidence that the set of images should be associated with a respective one of the properties.
21. A system for training at least one neural network function to facilitate image analysis, the system comprising: means for receiving signals representing a plurality of sets of training images; means for receiving signals representing expert evaluation properties, each of the expert evaluation properties provided by an expert and associated with one of the sets of training images; and means for causing the at least one neural network function to be trained using the sets of training images as respective inputs, wherein the means for causing the at least one neural network function to be trained comprises: means for, for each of the sets of training images: causing the at least one neural network function to be applied to the set of training images to determine at least one property confidence distribution parameter; and causing a cumulative distribution function defined at least in part by the at least one property confidence distribution parameter to be applied to a range associated with the expert evaluation property associated with the set of images, to determine a property confidence representing a confidence that the set of training images should be associated with the expert evaluation property; and means for causing the at least one neural network function to be updated to reduce a loss, the loss determined based at least in part on the determined property confidences.
</claims>
</document>
