<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/0476
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACUTUS MEDICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHU MIN
BEATTY, GRAYDON
SHAH, PRATIK
FLAHERTY, R. MAXWELL
ANGEL, NATHAN
SHI, XINWEI
CHOU, Derrick
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72837959
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM FOR CREATING A COMPOSITE MAP
</title>

<abstract>
Provided herein are systems for modeling a patient's cardiac electrical activity data, including at least one diagnostic catheter for insertion into the heart of the patient and a processing unit. The at least one diagnostic catheter includes at least one recording element to record patient data over multiple cardiac cycles. The patient data includes biopotential data and localization data of the at least one recording element. The processing unit includes a clustering routine that: receives the recorded patient data; segments the recorded patient data by cardiac cycle to produce segmented patient data; groups the segments based on one or more characteristics of the segments to produce segmented data groups; and combines the segmented patient data within each segmented data group to produce one or more composite recordings. The systems create one or more models of cardiac electrical activity of the patient based on the one or more composite recordings.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for modeling a patient's cardiac electrical activity data, comprising:
at least one diagnostic catheter for insertion into the heart of the patient, the at least one diagnostic catheter comprising at least one recording element configured to record patient data over multiple cardiac cycles, the patient data comprising:
biopotential data; and
stored and/or received localization data comprising the location of the at least one recording element; and
a processing unit comprising a clustering routine configured to:
receive the recorded patient data;
segment the recorded patient data by cardiac cycle to produce segmented
patient data comprising segments;
group the segments based on one or more characteristics of the segments to produce segmented data groups; and
combine the segmented patient data within each segmented data group to produce one or more composite recordings;
wherein the system is configured to create one or more models of cardiac electrical activity of the patient based on the one or more composite recordings.
2. The system according to claim 1, or any other claim, wherein the one or more models of cardiac electrical activity comprise two or more models of cardiac electrical activity.
3. The system according to claim 1, or any other claim,
wherein the biopotential data comprises biopotential signals recorded by each of the at least one recording elements;
wherein segmenting the recorded patient data comprises segmenting each of the
biopotential signals by cardiac cycle into multiple biopotential signal segments; and/or
wherein each of the one or more composite recordings comprises two or more of the multiple biopotential signal segments.
4. The system according to claim 3, or any other claim, wherein the two or more of the multiple biopotential signal segments comprises at least 1,000 biopotential signal segments.
5. The system according to claim 3, or any other claim, wherein the two or more of the multiple biopotential signal segments comprises at least 2,000 biopotential signal segments.
6. The system according to claim 3, or any other claim, wherein the two or more of the multiple biopotential signal segments comprises at least 5,000 biopotential signal segments.
7. The system according to claim 1, or any other claim, wherein the one or more segment characteristics are selected from the group consisting of:
pattern; cycle length; signal morphology; amplitude; frequency; frequency
components; wavelet composition; and combinations thereof.
8. The system according to claim 1, or any other claim, wherein the clustering routine comprises an algorithm selected from the group consisting of:
a connectivity model-based algorithm, such as a hierarchical clustering algorithm, wherein the models are based on distance connectivity; a centroid modelbased algorithm, such as a k-means clustering algorithm, wherein each cluster is represented by a single mean vector; a density model-based algorithm that defines the clusters as connected dense regions in the data space; a distribution model-based algorithm, such as a Gaussian mixture model clustering algorithm, wherein the clusters are modeled using a statistical distribution, such as a multivariate normal distribution; a graph-based model algorithm; a neural model-based algorithm, such as a self-organizing map and/or other unsupervised neural network, wherein an artificial neural network and/or other non-linear statistical data modeling tool is used to model complex relationships and patterns in data; and combinations thereof.
9. The system according to claim 1, or any other claim, further comprising an automatic timing annotation algorithm configured to identify and annotate one or more signal characteristics of the cardiac electrical activity.
10. The system of claim 9, or any other claim, wherein the characteristics correspond to cardiac tissue depolarization, activation, and/or repolarization.
11. The system according to claim 1, or any other claim, wherein the segments are grouped based on template matching.
12. The system of claim 11, or any other claim, wherein the template matching is based on one or more segment templates.
13. The system of claim 12, or any other claim, wherein the one or more segment templates are dynamically adjusted.
14. The system according to claim 1, or any other claim, wherein one or more of the segmented data groups are merged to form a merged group of all segments within the one or more segmented data groups.
15. The system according to claim 1, or any other claim, further comprising a display.
16. The system of claim 15, or any other claim, wherein the one or more models of cardiac electrical activity are shown on the display.
17. The system of claim 16, or any other claim, wherein the one or more models are shown on the display during the recording.
18. The system of claim 16, or any other claim, wherein a portion of the one or more models are shown on the display during the recording.
19. The system of claim 15, or any other claim, wherein an operator is shown visual feedback information on the display in a closed loop fashion.
20. The system of claim 19, or any other claim, wherein the feedback information is configured to provoke the operator to perform an action selected from the group consisting of: expand, extend, and/or alter an operator-determined pattern to include regions with lack of data, insufficient data, and/or poorly spatially distributed data; to increase data quantity and/or quality in a specific region of interest; to replace data in a region; to achieve full coverage, including high quality data across the full cardiac chamber surface and/or throughout the whole volume being assessed; and combinations thereof.
21. The system of claim 19, or any other claim, wherein the visual feedback information is configured to indicate the quantity and/or the quality of the recorded patient data.
22. The system of claim 21, or any other claim, wherein the quantity and/or quality is determined over time.
23. The system of claim 21, or any other claim, wherein the quantity and/or quality is determined across space.
24. The system of claim 1, or any other claim, wherein at least one of the at least one recording elements is in contact with the cardiac tissue for at least a portion of the data recording.
25. The system of claim 1, or any other claim, wherein at least one of the at least one recording elements is not in contact with the cardiac tissue for at least a portion of the data recording.
26. The system of claim 25, or any other claim, wherein at least one of the at least one recording elements is in contact with the cardiac tissue for the at least a portion of the data recording.
27. The system of claim 26, or any other claim, wherein data recorded by recoding elements in contact with cardiac tissue is processed separately from data recorded by recording elements not in contact with tissue.
28. The system of claim 1, or any other claim, wherein the at least one diagnostic catheter comprises at least two diagnostic catheters, and wherein each diagnostic catheter comprises at least one recording element.
29. The system of claim 1, or any other claim, wherein the at least one recording element comprises an array of recording elements.
30. The system of claim 29, or any other claim, wherein the array comprises a basket array.
31. The system of claim 29, or any other claim, wherein the array comprises at least 48 recording elements.
32. The system of claim 29, or any other claim, wherein the array of recording elements is maneuvered during a recording to cover at least 25%, 40%, and/or 60% of the volume of the cardiac chamber.
33. The system of claim 1, or any other claim, wherein the clustering routine comprises a detect-reject algorithm configured to identify undesirable signal characteristics.
34. The system of claim 1, or any other claim, wherein the clustering routine is configured to filter inconsistent, erroneous, and/or otherwise unwanted data.
35. A system for modeling cardiac electrical activity data, comprising:
a plurality of transducers to sense the positions of features of the patient's heart; a plurality of sensors to sense biopotential data of the patient's heart;
a recording unit to record the sensed position and biopotential data; and
a processing unit comprising a clustering routine configured to:
receive recorded patient data, including sensed position and biopotential data related to the patient's heart;
segment the recorded patient data by cardiac cycle to produce segmented patient data comprising segments; group the segments based on one or more characteristics of the segments to produce segmented data groups; and
combine the segmented patient data within each segmented data group to produce one or more composite recordings;
wherein the system is configured to create one or more models of cardiac electrical activity of the patient based on the one or more composite recordings.
36. The system of claim 35, or any other claim,
wherein the biopotential data comprises biopotential signals produced by each of the sensors,
wherein segmenting the recorded patient data comprises segmenting each of the
biopotential signals by cardiac cycle into multiple biopotential signal segments; and/or
wherein each of the one or more composite recordings comprises two or more of the multiple biopotential signal segments.
37. The system of claim 35, or any other claim, wherein the one or more segment characteristics are selected from the group consisting of: pattern; cycle length; signal morphology; amplitude; frequency; frequency components; wavelet composition; and combinations thereof.
38. The system of claim 35, or any other claim, wherein the clustering routine comprises an algorithm selected from the group consisting of:
a connectivity model-based algorithm, such as a hierarchical clustering algorithm, wherein the models are based on distance connectivity; a centroid modelbased algorithm, such as a k-means clustering algorithm, wherein each cluster is represented by a single mean vector; a density model-based algorithm that defines the clusters as connected dense regions in the data space; a distribution model-based algorithm, such as a Gaussian mixture model clustering algorithm, wherein the clusters are modeled using a statistical distribution, such as a multivariate normal distribution; a graph-based model algorithm; a neural model-based algorithm, such as a self-organizing map and/or other unsupervised neural network, wherein an artificial neural network and/or other non-linear statistical data modeling tool is used to model complex
relationships and patterns in data; and combinations thereof.
39. The system of claim 35, or any other claim, further comprising a display, wherein the one or more models are shown on the display during the recording and an operator is shown visual feedback information on the display in a closed loop fashion.
40. The system of claim 39, or any other claim, wherein the feedback information is configured to provoke the operator to perform an action selected from the group consisting of:
expand, extend, and/or alter an operator-determined pattern to include regions with lack of data, insufficient data, and/or poorly spatially distributed data; to increase data quantity and/or quality in a specific region of interest; to replace data in a region; to achieve full coverage, including high quality data across the full cardiac chamber surface and/or throughout the whole volume being assessed; and combinations thereof.
41. The system of claim 35, or any other claim, wherein the clustering routine comprises a detect-reject algorithm configured to identify undesirable signal characteristics.
42. The system of claim 35, or any other claim, wherein the clustering routine is configured to filter inconsistent, erroneous, and/or otherwise unwanted data.
43. An ablation system, comprising:
at least one diagnostic catheter for insertion into the heart of the patient, the at least one diagnostic catheter comprising at least one recording element configured to record patient data over multiple cardiac cycles, the patient data comprising: biopotential data; and
localization data comprising the location of the at least one recording element; an ablation catheter comprising:
an elongate shaft with a distal portion; and
at least one ablation element positioned on the ablation catheter shaft distal portion and configured to deliver energy to tissue; and a processing unit comprising a clustering routine configured to:
receive the recorded patient data;
segment the recorded patient data by cardiac cycle to produce segmented patient data comprising segments;
group the segments based on one or more characteristics of the segments to produce segmented data groups; and
combine the segmented patient data within each segmented data group to produce one or more composite recordings;
wherein the system is configured to create one or more models of cardiac electrical activity of the patient based on the one or more composite recordings.
44. The system of claim 43, or any other claim,
wherein the biopotential data comprises biopotential signals produced by each of the sensors,
wherein segmenting the recorded patient data comprises segmenting each of the biopotential signals by cardiac cycle into multiple biopotential signal segments; and/or
wherein each of the one or more composite recordings comprises two or more of the multiple biopotential signal segments.
45. The system of claim 43, or any other claim, wherein the one or more segment characteristics are selected from the group consisting of:
pattern; cycle length; signal morphology; amplitude; frequency; frequency
components; wavelet composition; and combinations thereof.
46. The system of claim 43, or any other claim, wherein the clustering routine comprises an algorithm selected from the group consisting of:
a connectivity model-based algorithm, such as a hierarchical clustering algorithm, wherein the models are based on distance connectivity; a centroid modelbased algorithm, such as a k-means clustering algorithm, wherein each cluster is represented by a single mean vector; a density model-based algorithm that defines the clusters as connected dense regions in the data space; a distribution model-based algorithm, such as a Gaussian mixture model clustering algorithm, wherein the clusters are modeled using a statistical distribution, such as a multivariate normal distribution; a graph-based model algorithm; a neural model-based algorithm, such as a self-organizing map and/or other unsupervised neural network, wherein an artificial neural network and/or other non-linear statistical data modeling tool is used to model complex relationships and patterns in data; and combinations thereof.
47. The system of claim 43, or any other claim, further comprising a display, wherein the one or more models are shown on the display during the recording and an operator is shown visual feedback information on the display in a closed loop fashion.
48. The system of claim 47, or any other claim, wherein the feedback information is configured to provoke the operator to perform an action selected from the group consisting of:
expand, extend, and/or alter an operator-determined pattern to include regions with lack of data, insufficient data, and/or poorly spatially distributed data; to increase data quantity and/or quality in a specific region of interest; to replace data in a region; to achieve full coverage, including high quality data across the full cardiac chamber surface and/or throughout the whole volume being assessed; and combinations thereof.
49. The system of claim 43, or any other claim, wherein the clustering routine comprises a detect-reject algorithm configured to identify undesirable signal characteristics.
50. The system of claim 43, wherein the clustering routine is configured to filter inconsistent, erroneous, and/or otherwise unwanted data.
51. The system of claim 43, or any other claim, further comprising an energy source configured to provide energy to the at least one ablation element of the ablation catheter, wherein the energy source is configured to provide an energy form selected from the group consisting of:
radiofrequency energy;
cryogenic energy; laser energy;
light energy;
microwave energy;
ultrasound energy;
chemical energy; and
combinations thereof.
52. An ablation system, comprising:
at least one diagnostic catheter for insertion into the heart of the patient, the at least one diagnostic catheter comprising at least one recording element configured to record patient data over multiple cardiac cycles, the patient data comprising: biopotential data; and
localization data comprising the location of the at least one recording element; an ablation catheter comprising:
an elongate shaft with a distal portion; and
at least one ablation element positioned on the ablation catheter shaft distal portion and configured to deliver energy to tissue;
a processing unit comprising a clustering routine configured to:
receive the recorded patient data;
segment the recorded patient data by cardiac cycle to produce segmented
patient data comprising segments;
group the segments based on one or more characteristics of the segments to produce segmented data groups; and
combine the segmented patient data within each segmented data group to
produce one or more composite recordings;
wherein the system is configured to create one or more models of cardiac electrical activity of the patient based on the one or more composite recordings; and
a display, wherein at least a portion of one of the one or more models of cardiac
electrical activity are shown on the display.
53. The system of claim 52, or any other claim, wherein the system is configured to generate one or more active area plots on the display.
54. The system of claim 52, or any other claim, wherein the system is configured to generate one or more streamline plots on the display.
55. The system of claim 52, or any other claim, wherein the system is configured to generate one or more auto path plots on the display.
</claims>
</document>
