<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04S7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LOVITT, ANDREW
ROBINSON, PHILIP
AMENGUAL GARI, Sebastiá
SCHISSLER, Carl
MARESH, Peter
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70461636
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUDIO SYSTEM FOR ARTIFICIAL REALITY ENVIRONMENT
</title>

<abstract>
An audio system on a headset presents, to a user, audio content simulating a target artificial reality environment. The system receives audio content from an environment and analyzes the audio content to determine a set of acoustic properties associated with the environment. The audio content may be user generated or ambient sound. After receiving a set of target acoustic properties for a target environment, the system determines a transfer function by comparing the set of acoustic properties and the target environment's acoustic properties. The system adjusts the audio content based on the transfer function and presents the adjusted audio content to the user. The presented adjusted audio content includes one or more of the target acoustic properties for the target environment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising:
analyzing sound in an environment to identify a set of acoustic properties associated with the environment;
receiving audio content generated within the environment;
determining a transfer function based on a comparison of the set of acoustic properties to a set of target acoustic properties for a target environment;
adjusting the audio content using the transfer function, wherein the transfer function
adjusts the set of acoustic properties of the audio content based on the set of target acoustic properties for the target environment; and
presenting the adjusted audio content for the user, wherein the adjusted audio content is perceived by the user to have been generated in the target environment.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the audio content using the transfer function further comprises:
identifying ambient sound in the environment; and
filtering the ambient sound out of the adjusted audio content for the user.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
providing the user with a plurality of target environment options, each of the plurality of target environment options corresponding to a different target environment; and receiving, from the user, a selection of the target environment from the plurality of target environment options.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein each of the plurality of target environment options is associated with a different set of acoustic properties for the target environment.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
determining an original response characterizing the set of acoustic properties associated with the environment; and
determining a target response characterizing the set of target acoustic properties for the target environment.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the transfer function further comprises:
comparing the original response and the target response; and
determining, based on the comparison, differences between the set of acoustic parameters associated with the environment and the set of acoustic parameters associated with the target environment.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
generating sound filters using the transfer function, wherein the adjusted audio content is based in part on the sound filters.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the transfer function is determined based on at least one previously measured room impulse or algorithmic reverberation.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the audio content further comprises: convolving the transfer function with the received audio content.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the received audio content is generated by at least one user of a plurality of users.
11. An audio system comprising:
one or more sensors configured to receive audio content within an environment;
one or more speakers configured to present audio content to a user; and
a controller configured to:
analyze sound in the environment to identify a set of acoustic properties associated with the environment;
determine a transfer function based on a comparison of the set of acoustic properties to a set of target acoustic properties for a target environment; adjust the audio content using the transfer function, wherein the transfer function adjusts the set of acoustic properties of the audio content based on the set of target acoustic properties for the target environment; and
instruct the speaker to present the adjusted audio content to the user, wherein the adjusted audio content is perceived by the user to have been generated in the target environment.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the audio system is part of a headset.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein adjusting the audio content further comprises:
identifying ambient sound in the environment; and
filtering the ambient sound out of the adjusted audio content for the user.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to: provide the user with a plurality of target environment options, each of the plurality of target environment options corresponding to a different target environment; and
receive, from the user, a selection of the target environment from the plurality of target environment options.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein each of the plurality of target environment options is associated with a set of target acoustic properties for the target environment.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to:
determine an original response characterizing the set of acoustic properties associated with the environment; and
determine a target response characterizing the set of target acoustic properties for the target environment.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the controller is further configured to:
estimate a room impulse response of the environment, wherein the room impulse response is used to generate the original response.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to:
generate sound filters using the transfer function; and
adjust the audio content based in part on the sound filters.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to: determine the transfer function using at least one previously measured room impulse response or algorithmic reverberation.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the controller is configured to adjust the audio content by convolving the transfer function with the received audio content.
</claims>
</document>
