<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VYAIRE MEDICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLANSFIELD, TERRY
VARGA, CHRISTOPHER, M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72662290
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GRAPHICAL PATIENT AND PATIENT POPULATION DATA DISPLAY ENVIRONMENT AND ELEMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed system generates a three dimensional virtual space that includes an object representation of at least a portion of a human body and a first three-dimensional cylindrical surface floating within the three-dimensional space, wherein the first three-dimensional cylindrical surface includes a two-dimensional data area for a presentation of data to a user viewing the first three-dimensional cylindrical surface in the three-dimensional space. A two-dimensional data representation of first physiological data is displayed on the two-dimensional data area. In response to receiving a user selection of a portion of the three-dimensional cylindrical surface, the system generates one or more additional surfaces floating within the three-dimensional space. A two-dimensional data representation of second physiological data associated with the first physiological data is displayed on a data area of the one or more additional surfaces.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating a virtual reality interface to display patient health data, comprising:
generating a three-dimensional space including an object representation of at least a portion of a human body and a first three-dimensional cylindrical surface floating within the three-dimensional space, wherein the first three-dimensional cylindrical surface includes a twodimensional data area for a presentation of data;
displaying, on the two-dimensional data area, a two-dimensional data representation of first physiological data;
receiving a user selection of a portion of the three-dimensional cylindrical surface; generating, in response to receiving the user selection, one or more additional surfaces floating within the three-dimensional space; and
displaying, on a data area of the one or more additional surfaces, a two-dimensional data representation of second physiological data associated with the first physiological data,
wherein the three-dimensional cylindrical surface has a height dimension and a length dimension circumscribed about at least a portion of the object representation, the height and length together defining the two-dimensional data area for the presentation of data to a user viewing the three-dimensional cylindrical surface in the three-dimensional space.
2. The method of Claim 1, wherein the one or more additional surfaces comprises one or more additional three-dimensional surfaces, the method comprising:
generating, in response to receiving the user selection, the one or more additional threedimensional cylindrical surfaces floating within the three-dimensional space; and
displaying, on a data area of the one or more additional three-dimensional cylindrical surfaces, a two-dimensional data representation of second physiological data associated with the first physiological data.
3. The method of Claim 2, wherein the one or more additional three-dimensional cylindrical surfaces are displayed above or below and adjacent to the first three-dimensional cylindrical surface, each additional three-dimensional cylindrical surface is circumscribed about the portion of the object representation.
4. The method of Claim 3, wherein the first three dimensional cylindrical surface comprises a series of segmented bands circumscribing an axis in the three-dimensional space, each band being separated from each other by an open space, and wherein the user selection is received at a first band of the segmented bands and causes the one or more additional threedimensional cylindrical surfaces to be displayed above or below the first band in a curvilinear plane aligned with a curvilinear plane of the first band.
5. The method of Claim 1 , wherein the two-dimensional data representation of the first physiological data comprises a marker associated with a portion of the first physiological data, and the user selection corresponds to a selection of the marker.
6. The method of Claim 5, further comprising:
receiving a data stream corresponding to a physiological parameter of a patient, wherein the two-dimensional data representation of second physiological data comprises a visualization of at least a portion of the data stream.
7. The method of Claim l , wherein the one or more additional surfaces comprises an image viewing dialog configured to display images associated with a patient, and the twodimensional data representation of second physiological data comprises a first image associated with the patient, the method comprising:
generating, in response to receiving the user selection, the image viewing dialog floating within the three-dimensional space, the image viewing dialog comprising an image viewing area displaying the first image, and circumscribed by multiple icons representative of selectors for other images to display in the image viewing area;
receiving an icon selection of one of the multiple icons; and
displaying, response to the icon selection, a second image in the image viewing area.
8. The method of Claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional space is generated as part of an augmented reality, and the object representation and the first three-dimensional cylindrical surface are floating in the augmented reality in relation to at least one physical object outside of the augmented reality.
9. The method of Claim 8, further comprising:
receiving motion data from one or more motion sensors;
detecting, based on the motion data received from the one or more motion sensors, a physical gesture performed by a user in a physical space associated with the augmented reality, wherein the user selection is received responsive to the physical gesture matching a predetermined gesture for selecting the portion of the three-dimensional cylindrical surface.
10. The method of Claim 1, further comprising:
determining an occurrence of an event based at least in part on the first physiological data;
generating a different representation of the occurrence of the event for including in the two-dimensional data representation of the first physiological data, wherein the different representation of the occurrence of the event comprises a two-dimensional shape that is overlaid along a portion of the two-dimensional data representation of the first physi ological data coinciding with the occurrence of the event;
receiving a second user selection of the portion of the two-dimensional data
representation of the first physiological data coinciding with the occurrence of the event; and in response to the second user selection, generating a second visualization of a second portion of the data stream corresponding to the portion of the two-dimensional data
representation of the first physiological data coinciding with the occurrence of the event.
11. A system comprising:
a processor;
a memory device containing instructions, which when executed by the processor cause the processor to:
generate a three-dimensional space including an object representation of at least a portion of a human body and a first three-dimensional cylindrical surface floating within the threedimensional space and circumscribed about at least a portion of the object representation, wherein the first three-dimensional cylindrical surface includes a two-dimensional data area for a presentation of data; display, on the two-dimensional data area, a two-dimensional data representation of first physiological data;
receive a user selection of a portion of the three-dimensional cylindrical surface;
generate, in response to receiving the user selection, one or more additional surfaces floating within the three-dimensional space; and
display, on a data area of the one or more additional surfaces, a two-dimensional data representation of second physiological data associated with the first physiological data.
12. The system of Claim 11, wherein the one or more additional surfaces comprises one or more additional three-dimensional surfaces, wherein the instructions, when executed, further cause the processor to:
generate, in response to receiving the user selection, the one or more additional threedimensional cylindrical surfaces floating within the three-dimensional space; and
display, on a data area of the one or more additional three-dimensional cyl indrical surfaces, a two-dimensional data representation of second physiological data associated with the first physiological data.
13. The system of Claim 12, wherein the one or more additional three-dimensional cylindrical surfaces are displayed above or below and adjacent to the first three-dimensional cylindrical surface, each additional three-dimensional cylindrical surface is circumscribed about the portion of the object representation.
14. The system of Claim 13, wherein the first three dimensional cylindrical surface comprises a series of segmented bands circumscribing an axis in the three-dimensional space, each band being separated from each other by an open space, and wherein the user selection is received at a first band of the segmented bands and causes the one or more additional threedimensional cylindrical surfaces to be displayed above or below the first band in a curvilinear plane aligned with a curvilinear plane of the first band. 15. The system of Claim 11, wherein the two-dimensional data representation of the first physiological data comprises a marker associated with a portion of the first physiological data, and the user selection corresponds to a selection of the marker.
16. The system of Claim 15, wherein the three-dimensional cylindrical surface has a height dimension and a length dimension circumscribed about the at least a portion of the object representation, the height and length together defining the two-dimensional data area for the presentation of data to a user viewing the three-dimensional cylindrical surface in the threedimensional space.
17. The system of Claim 11, wherein the one or more additional surfaces comprises an image viewing dialog configured to display images associated with a patient, and the twodimensional data representation of second physiological data comprises a first image associated with the patient, wherein the instructions, when executed, further cause the processor to:
generate, in response to receiving the user selection, the image viewing dialog floating within the three-dimensional space, the image viewing dialog comprising an image viewing area displaying the first image, and circumscribed by multiple icons representative of selectors for other images to display in the image viewing area;
recei ve an icon selection of one of the multiple icons; and
display, responsive to the icon selection, a second image in the image viewing area.
18. The system of Claim 11, wherein the three-dimensional space is generated as part of an augmented reality, and the object representation and the first three-dimensional cylindrical surface are floating in the augmented reality in relation to at least one physical object outside of the augmented reality.
19. The system of Claim 18, wherein the instructions, when executed, further cause the processor to:
receive motion data from one or more motion sensors;
detect, based on the motion data received from the one or more motion sensors, a physical gesture performed by a user in a physical space associated with the augmented reality, wherein the user selection is received responsive to the physical gesture matching a predetermined gesture for selecting the portion of the three-dimensional cylindrical surface.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions, which when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to perform operations comprising: generating a three-dimensional space including an object representation of at least a portion of a human body and a first three-dimensional cylindrical surface floating within the three-dimensional space and circumscribed about at least a portion of the object representation, wherein the first three-dimensional cylindrical surface includes a two-dimensional data area for a presentation of data;
displaying, on the two-dimensional data area, a two-dimensional data representation of first physiological data;
receiving a user selection of a portion of the three-dimensional cylindrical surface;
generating, in response to receiving the user selection, one or more additional threedimensional cylindrical surfaces floating within the three-dimensional space; and
displaying, on a data area of the one or more additional three-dimensional cylindrical surfaces, a two-dimensional data representation of second physiological data associated with the first physiological data.
</claims>
</document>
