<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/22,H04M3/493
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEVIATHAN, YANIV
SEGALIS, EYAL
AHARONI, Asaf
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70969011
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED CALLING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus for an automated calling system are disclosed. Some implementations are directed to using a bot to initiate telephone calls and conduct telephone conversations with a user. The bot may be interrupted while providing synthesized speech during the telephone call. The interruption can be classified into one of multiple disparate interruption types, and the bot can react to the interruption based on the interruption type. Some implementations are directed to determining that a first user is placed on hold by a second user during a telephone conversation, and maintaining the telephone call in an active state in response to determining the first user hung up the telephone call. The first user can be notified when the second user rejoins the call, and a bot associated with the first user can notify the first user that the second user has rejoined the telephone call.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method implemented by one or more processors, the method comprising: initiating a telephone call with a user using a bot, the bot configured to initiate telephone calls and conduct telephone conversations;
providing, for output at a corresponding computing device of the user, synthesized speech of the bot;
while providing the synthesized speech of the bot:
receiving, from the user, a user utterance that interrupts the synthesized speech the bot;
in response to receiving the user utterance that interrupts the synthesized speech, classifying the received user utterance as a given type of interruption, the given type of interruption being one of multiple disparate types of
interruptions; and
determining, based on the given type of interruption, whether to continue providing, for output at the corresponding computing device of the user, the synthesized speech of the bot.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the given type of interruption is a non
meaningful interruption, and wherein classifying the received user utterance as the non meaningful interruption comprises:
processing audio data corresponding to the received user utterance or a transcription corresponding to the received user utterance to determine that the received user utterance includes one or more of: background noise, affirmation words or phrases, or filler words or phrases; and
classifying the received user utterance as the non-meaningful interruption based on determining that the received user utterance includes one or more of: background noise, affirmation words or phrases, or filler words or phrases.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining whether to continue providing the synthesized speech of the bot comprises:
determining to continue providing the synthesized speech of the bot based on classifying the received user utterance as the non-meaningful interruption.
4. The method of claim 1 , wherein the given type of interruption is a non-critical meaningful interruption, and wherein classifying the received user utterance as the noncritical meaningful interruption comprises:
processing audio data corresponding to the received user utterance or a transcription corresponding to the received user utterance to determine that the received user utterance includes a request for information that is known by the bot, and that is yet to be provided; and
classifying the received user utterance as the non-critical meaningful interruption based on determining that the received user utterance includes the request for the information that is known by the bot, and that is yet to be provided.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein determining whether to continue providing the synthesized speech of the bot comprises:
based on classifying the user utterance as the non-critical meaningful
interruption, determining a temporal point in a remainder portion of the synthesized speech to cease providing, for output, the synthesized speech of the bot;
determining whether the remainder portion of the synthesized speech is responsive to the received utterance; and
in response to determining that the remainder portion is not responsive to the received user utterance:
providing, for output, an additional portion of the synthesized speech that is responsive to the received user utterance, and that is yet to be provided; and after providing, for output, the additional portion of the synthesized speech, continuing providing, for output, the remainder portion of the
synthesized speech of the bot from the temporal point.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising:
in response to determining that the remainder portion is responsive to the received user utterance:
continuing providing, for output, the remainder portion of the synthesized speech of the bot from the temporal point.
7. The method of claim 1 , wherein the given type of interruption is a critical meaningful interruption, and wherein classifying the received user utterance as the critical meaningful interruption comprises:
processing audio data corresponding to the received user utterance or a transcription corresponding to the received user utterance to determine that the received user utterance includes a request for the bot to repeat the synthesized speech or a request to place the bot on hold; and
classifying the received user utterance as the non-critical meaningful interruption based on determining that the received user utterance includes the request for the bot to repeat the synthesized speech or the request to place the bot on hold.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein determining whether to continue providing the synthesized speech of the bot comprises:
providing, for output, a remainder portion of a current word or term of the synthesized speech of the bot; and
after providing, for output, the remainder portion of the current word or term, cease providing, for output, the synthesized speech of the bot.
9. The method of claim 1 , wherein classifying the received user utterance as the given type of interruption comprises:
processing audio data corresponding to the received user utterance or a transcription corresponding to the received user utterance using a machine learning model to determine the given type of interruption.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: training the machine learning model using a plurality of training instances, wherein each of the training instances include training instance input and corresponding training instance output,
wherein each training instance input includes training audio data corresponding to an interruption utterance or a transcription corresponding to the interruption utterance, and
wherein each corresponding training instance output includes a ground truth label corresponding the type of interruption included in the interruption utterance.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein processing the audio data corresponding to the received user utterance or the transcription corresponding to the received user utterance using the machine learning model further comprises processing the synthesized speech being output when the user utterance was received along with the audio data or the transcription.
12. The method of claim 1 , wherein classifying the received user utterance as the given type of interruption comprises:
processing audio data corresponding to the received user utterance or a transcription corresponding to the received user utterance using one or more rules that match tokens of the received user utterance to one or more terms associated with each of the multiple disparate interruption types.
13. The method of claim 1 , wherein initiating the telephone call with the user using the bot is responsive to receiving user input, from a given user associated with the bot, to initiate the telephone call.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the user input to initiate the telephone call includes information points that are to be included in the synthesized speech that is provided for output at the corresponding computing device of the user.
15. A method implemented by one or more processors, the method comprising: determining that a first user and a second user are engaged in a telephone call, wherein the first user is associated with a corresponding first computing device, and wherein the second user is associated with a corresponding second computing device; determining that the second user has placed the first user on hold;
determining that the first user has hung up the corresponding first computing device;
in response to determining that the first user has hung up the corresponding first phone and while the first user is on hold:
maintaining the telephone call in an active state; and
determining whether the second user has rejoined the telephone call; and in response to determining that the second user has rejoined the telephone call: using a bot associated with the corresponding first computing device of the first user to continue the telephone call with the second user;
providing, for output at the corresponding first computing device, a notification for the first user to rejoin the telephone call;
determining that the first user has rejoined the telephone call; and in response to determining that the first user has rejoined the telephone call, ceasing the telephone conversation between the second user and the bot.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein using the bot associated with the
corresponding first computing device of the first user to continue the telephone call with the second user comprises:
generating synthesized speech of the bot that indicates the first user is not an active participant on the telephone call; and
providing, for output at the corresponding second computing device of the second user, the synthesized speech of the bot.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
prior to the first user rejoining the telephone call, receiving, from the second user, a user utterance; generating a transcription of the user utterance; and
including the transcription of the user utterance in the notification for the first user to rejoin the telephone call.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein maintaining the telephone call in the active state comprises:
muting one or more microphones of the corresponding first computing device; and
maintaining a telephonic connection between the corresponding first computing device and the corresponding second computing device.
19. A system comprising:
one or more computers; and
one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more computers to perform a method according to any one of claims 1 to 18.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software comprising instructions executable by one or more computers which, upon such execution, cause the one or more computers to perform a method of any one of claims 1 to 18.
</claims>
</document>
