<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/063,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIPSOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LARZUL, LUDOVIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66397380
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ACCELERATING NEURON COMPUTATIONS IN ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS BY SELECTING INPUT DATA
</title>

<abstract>
An example method for accelerating neuron computations in an artificial neural network (ANN) comprises receiving a plurality of pairs of first values and second values associated with a neuron of an ANN, selecting pairs from the plurality of pairs, wherein a count of the selected pairs is less than a count of all pairs in the plurality of pairs, performing mathematical operations on the selected pairs to obtain a result, determining that the result does not satisfy a criterion, and, until the result satisfies the criterion, selecting further pairs from the plurality, performing the mathematical operations on the selected further pairs to obtain further results, and determining, based on the result and the further results, an output of the neuron.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A system for accelerating neuron computations in an artificial neural network (ANN), the system comprising one or more processing units configured to:
receive a plurality of pairs, the pairs including first values and second values, the plurality of pairs being used for calculation of a neuron of an ANN; select one or more pairs from the plurality of pairs, wherein a count of the selected one or more pairs is less than a count of all pairs in the plurality of pairs; perform mathematical operations on the selected one or more pairs to obtain a result;
determine that the result does not satisfy a criterion;
upon determining that the result does not satisfy the criterion, perform further operations comprising:
selecting one or more further pairs from the plurality of pairs; and performing the mathematical operations on the selected one or more further pairs to obtain a further result; and
determine, based on the result and the further result, an output of the neuron.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processing units are configured to:
add the further result to the result; and
repeat the further operations and the adding the further result to the result until the result satisfies the criterion.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processing units are configured to skip the further operations based on determination that the result satisfies the criterion.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the mathematical operations includes a
multiplication.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein a count of the mathematical operations performed on all the selected one or more pairs is less than a count of the mathematical operations that would be performed on all pairs in the plurality of pairs.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein an order of the selected one or more pairs and the selected one or more further pairs being used for performing the mathematical operations is different from an order of pairs in the received plurality of pairs.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein:
the selecting the one or more pairs from the plurality of pairs is based on absolute values of at least one of the first values or second values of the one or more pairs; and
the selecting the one or more further pairs from the plurality of pairs is based on absolute values of at least one of the first values or second values of the one or more further pairs.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein a pair of the plurality of pairs having a larger absolute value of the first value or the second value is selected prior to a pair of the plurality of pairs having a lesser absolute value of the first value or the second value.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the selecting the one or more pairs from the
plurality of pairs is based on values of bits of binary numbers representing the first values or the second values of the one or more pairs.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein:
a pair with a first value having a first non-zero bit at a position K starting from a least significant bit is selected prior to a pair with a first value having a first non-zero bit at a position K-l, wherein K is less than a count of bits a binary number representing the first value; or
a pair with a second value having a first non-zero bit at a position K starting from a least significant bit is selected prior to a pair with a second value having a first non-zero bit at a position K-l, wherein K is less than a count of bits a binary number representing the second value.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processing units are configured to modify the first values or the second values of unselected pairs of the plurality pairs.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the modifying of the first values or the second values is setting the first values to zero or setting the second values to zero.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein selecting a pair from the plurality of pairs includes setting an enable bit associated with the selected pair, and wherein the processing units are configured to:
determine that the enable bit is set for the pair; and
in response to the determination, perform the mathematical operations on the pair.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein selecting a pair from the plurality of pairs
includes setting an index equal to a position of the pair in the plurality of pairs or in a subset of the plurality of pairs.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining that the result satisfies the
criterion includes comparing the result to one or more thresholds.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining that the result satisfies the
criterion includes comparing numbers, wherein at least one of the compared numbers is determined based on one of: the result, a first value, or a second values of a pair of the plurality of pairs.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of pairs includes pairs with input values for the neuron and weights corresponding to the input values.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the processing units is
implemented in an electronic circuit.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the receiving the plurality of pairs includes: receiving a first plurality of the first values and a second plurality of the second values, wherein a first value of the first plurality is associated with a second value of the second plurality.
20. A method for accelerating neuron computations in an artificial neural network (ANN), the method comprising:
receiving, by one or more processing units, a plurality of pairs, the pairs including first values and second values, the plurality of pairs being used for calculation of a neuron of an ANN;
selecting, by the one or more processing units, one or more pairs from the plurality of pairs, wherein a count of the selected one or more pairs is less than a count of all pairs in the plurality of pairs;
performing, by the one or more processing units, mathematical operations on the selected one or more pairs to obtain a result;
determining, by the one or more processing units, that the result does not satisfy a criterion;
upon determining that the result does not satisfy the criterion, performing, by the one or more processing units, further operations comprising:
selecting one or more further pairs from the plurality of pairs; and performing the mathematical operations on the selected one or more further pairs to obtain a further result; and
determining, by the one or more processing units and based on the result and the further result, an output of the neuron.
</claims>
</document>
