<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G07D7/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SICPA HOLDING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CALLEGARI, ANDREA
DESPLAND, CLAUDE-ALAIN
DINOEV, TODOR
DORIER, JEAN-LUC
HALASZ, EDMUND
LOGINOV, EVGENY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65686697
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR AUTHENTICATING A MAGNETICALLY INDUCED MARK WITH A PORTABLE DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to a method of authenticating a magnetically induced mark applied on a substrate including magnetically oriented partially reflective platelet-shaped magnetic or magnetizable pigment particles, with a portable device equipped with a light source operable to deliver visible light, an imager, a processor and a memory, the method comprising calculating, with the processor, a corresponding average intensity I of the light reflected by the partially reflective platelet-shaped magnetic or magnetizable pigment particles and collected by the imager at corresponding viewing angle θ, storing the calculated average intensities of the reflected light and corresponding viewing angles to obtain a reflected light intensity curve I(θ), comparing the stored reflected light intensity curve I(θ) with a stored reference reflected light intensity curve Iref(θ) for said magnetically induced mark, and determining whether the magnetically induced mark is genuine based on a result of the comparison.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of authenticating a magnetically induced mark (1) applied on a substrate (2) and comprising a zone with a plane layer of a material including magnetically oriented partially reflective platelet-shaped magnetic or magnetizable pigment particles (6), with a portable device equipped with a light source (5) operable to deliver visible light, an imager (4), a processor and a memory, the method comprising:
disposing the imager of the portable device facing the zone of the magnetically induced mark;
illuminating the zone of the magnetically induced mark with the light source and taking a plurality of digital images of the illuminated zone with the imager being for each different digital image at a corresponding distinct viewing angle 0 with respect to said zone, by moving the imager above the magnetically induced mark in a direction of the orientation of the magnetic or magnetizable pigment particles and parallel to the plane layer;
for each digital image, calculating, with the processor, a corresponding average intensity I of the light (8) reflected by the partially reflective platelet-shaped magnetic or magnetizable pigment particles and collected by the imager at corresponding viewing angle Q; storing the calculated average intensities of the reflected light and corresponding viewing angles to obtain a reflected light intensity curve l(0);
comparing the stored reflected light intensity curve I(q) with a stored reference reflected light intensity curve lref(0) for magnetically induced mark, and
determining whether the magnetically induced mark is genuine based on a result of the comparison.
2. The method according to claim 1 , further comprising
calculating a rate of change of the reflected light intensity curve l(0) to determine an angular value and corresponding intensity peak value of the curve;
comparing the calculated angular value and the intensity peak value with a stored reference angular value and intensity peak value for said magnetically induced mark, respectively,
wherein determining whether the magnetically induced mark is genuine is further based on a result of said comparison.
3. The method according to claim 1 , further comprising
calculating a variance of the reflected light intensity over said zone of the magnetically induced mark from the acquired digital images;
comparing the calculated variance with a reference value of the variance for said magnetically induced mark,
wherein determining whether the magnetically induced mark is genuine is further based on a result of said comparison.
4. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, further comprising reading a geometrical reference pattern, the geometrical reference pattern at least partially overlapping the zone of the magnetically induced mark and being in the form of an encoded mark selected from encoded alphanumeric data, one-dimensional barcode, two-dimensional barcode, QR-code (12) or data matrix.
5. The method according to any one of preceding claims, wherein the zone of the magnetically induced mark comprises magnetically oriented partially reflective platelet-shaped magnetic or magnetizable pigment particles, which are co-parallel.
6. The method according to any one of preceding claims, wherein the zone of the magnetically induced mark comprises a first zone including magnetically oriented partially reflective platelet-shaped magnetic or magnetizable pigment particles (6), which are co-parallel in one first direction, and a second zone with partially reflective platelet-shaped magnetic or magnetizable pigment particles (6') oriented in a second direction, different from the first direction.
7. The method according to any one of preceding claims, wherein the portable device is a smartphone (3) or tablet.
8. A portable device for authenticating a magnetically induced mark (1) applied on a substrate (2) and comprising a zone with a plane layer of a material including magnetically oriented partially reflective platelet-shaped magnetic or magnetizable pigment particles (6), said device comprising:
a light source (5) operable to deliver visible light (7) and illuminating the zone of the magnetically induced mark,
an imager (4) operable to take a plurality of digital images of the illuminated zone, for each different image at a corresponding distinct viewing angle Q with respect to said zone, while moving above the magnetically induced mark in a direction of the orientation of the magnetic or magnetizable pigment particles and parallel to the plane layer,
a memory for storing the calculated average intensities of the reflected light (8) and corresponding viewing angles to obtain a reflected light intensity curve I(q), and
a processor operable to compare the stored reflected light intensity curve I(q) with a stored reference reflected light intensity curve lref(0) for said magnetically induced mark, and determine whether the magnetically induced mark is genuine based on a result of the comparison.
9. The device according to claim 8, wherein the processor is operable to calculate a rate of change of the reflected light intensity curve I(q) to determine an angular value and corresponding value of an intensity peak of the curve, to compare the calculated angular value and the intensity peak with a stored reference angular value and intensity peak value for said magnetically induced mark, respectively, and to further base the decision whether the magnetically induced mark is genuine on a result of said comparison.
10. The device according to claim 8, wherein the processor is operable to calculate a variance of the reflected light intensity over said zone of the magnetically induced mark from the acquired digital images, to compare the calculated variance with a reference value of the variance for said magnetically induced mark, and to further base the decision whether the magnetically induced mark is genuine on a result of said comparison.
1 1 . The device according to any one of claims 8 to 10, further operable to read a geometrical reference pattern, the geometrical reference pattern at least partially overlapping the zone of the magnetically induced mark and being in the form of an encoded mark selected from encoded alphanumeric data, one-dimensional barcode, two-dimensional barcode, QR-code (12) or datamatrix.
12. The device according to any one of claims 8 to 1 1 , wherein the zone of the magnetically induced mark comprises magnetically oriented partially reflective platelet-shaped magnetic or magnetizable pigment particles, which are co-parallel.
13. The device according to any one of claims 8 to 12, wherein the zone of the magnetically induced mark comprises a first zone including magnetically oriented partially reflective platelet-shaped magnetic or magnetizable pigment particles (6), which are co-parallel in one first direction, and a second zone with partially reflective platelet-shaped magnetic or magnetizable pigment particles (6') magnetically oriented in a second direction, different from the first direction.
14. The device according to any one of claims 8 to 13, wherein the portable device is a smartphone (3) or tablet.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising computer code parts executable by a processor to cause a portable device equipped with a light source (5) operable to deliver visible light (7) and an imager (4), to perform the method of any of claims 1 to 7.
</claims>
</document>
