<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01K11/00,A01K27/00,A01K29/00,G01S19/05,G01S19/06,G06F3/0484
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AVERIA ELECTRONICS, INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAKARYCHEV, Yury
TEREKHOV, Stanislav
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72426272
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM, APPARATUS, AND METHOD FOR MONITORING AN ANIMAL STATUS
</title>

<abstract>
A method is disclosed. The method includes providing a monitoring device to an animal, the animal being monitored by a user having a user device, determining location data defining a spatial zone, determining location data of the monitoring device, sensing a movement of the animal using the monitoring device, and determining whether or not the monitoring device is connected to the user device via a first communication system when the movement of the animal exceeds a movement threshold. The method also includes determining whether or not the monitoring device is connected to a second communication system when the monitoring device is not connected to the user device via the first communication system, and determining whether or not the monitoring device is located in the spatial zone by comparing the location data defining the spatial zone with the location data of the monitoring device.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method, comprising: providing a monitoring device to an animal, the animal being monitored by a user having a user device; determining location data defining a spatial zone; determining location data of the monitoring device; sensing a movement of the animal using the monitoring device; determining whether or not the monitoring device is connected to the user device via a first communication system when the movement of the animal exceeds a movement threshold; determining whether or not the monitoring device is connected to a second communication system when the monitoring device is not connected to the user device via the first communication system; determining whether or not the monitoring device is located in the spatial zone by comparing the location data defining the spatial zone with the location data of the monitoring device when the monitoring device is not connected to the second communication system; and transferring alert data to the user device when the monitoring device is not located in the spatial zone.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first communication system is a Bluetooth system.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the second communication system is a Wi-Fi network.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting data to the user device indicating a safe status for the animal when the movement of the animal is less than the movement threshold.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting data to the user device indicating a safe status for the animal when the monitoring device is connected to the user device via the first communication system and maintaining the safe status until the movement of the animal exceeds the movement threshold.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting data to the user device indicating a safe status for the animal when the monitoring device is connected to the second communication system and maintaining the safe status until the movement of the animal exceeds the movement threshold.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting data to the user device indicating a safe status for the animal when the monitoring device is located in the spatial zone and maintaining the safe status until the movement of the animal exceeds the movement threshold.
8. The method if claim 1, wherein sensing a movement of the animal using the monitoring device includes using an accelerometer included in the monitoring device.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein determining location data of the monitoring device includes using a positioning system selected from the group consisting of GNSS and GPS.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising pairing the user device that is a smartphone with the monitoring device that is a collar worn by the animal, wherein the animal is a pet of the user.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising updating the location data defining the spatial zone that is a safe zone for the animal.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the movement threshold is the animal moving continuously for 15 seconds.
13. A system, comprising: an animal status module, comprising computer-executable code stored in non-volatile memory; a processor; a monitoring device; and a user device; wherein the animal status module, the processor, the monitoring device, and the user device are configured to: determine location data defining a safe geographic zone; determine location data of the monitoring device; sense a movement of an animal using the monitoring device; determine whether or not the monitoring device is connected to the user device via a first communication system when the movement of the animal exceeds a movement threshold; determine whether or not the monitoring device is connected to a second communication system when the monitoring device is not connected to the user device via the first communication system; determine whether or not the monitoring device is located in the safe geographic zone by comparing the location data defining the safe geographic zone with the location data of the monitoring device when the monitoring device is not connected to the second communication system; and transfer alert data to the user device when the monitoring device is not located in the safe geographic zone;
wherein each of the first communication system and the second communication system is either a Bluetooth system or a Wi-Fi network.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the animal status module, the processor, the monitoring device, and the user device are configured to: transmit data to the user device indicating a safe status for the animal when the monitoring device is connected to the user device via the first communication system, and maintain the safe status until the movement of the animal exceeds the movement threshold.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the animal status module, the processor, the monitoring device, and the user device are configured to: transmit data to the user device indicating a safe status for the animal when the monitoring device is connected to the second communication system, and maintain the safe status until the movement of the animal exceeds the movement threshold.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the animal status module, the processor, the monitoring device, and the user device are configured to: transmit data to the user device indicating a safe status for the animal when the monitoring device is located in the safe geographic zone, and maintain the safe status until the movement of the animal exceeds the movement threshold.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the second communication system is located in the safe geographic zone.
18. A method, comprising:
providing a monitoring device to an animal, the animal being monitored by a user having a user device;
determining location data defining a spatial zone;
determining location data of the monitoring device;
sensing a movement of the animal using the monitoring device;
determining whether or not the monitoring device is directly connected to the user device via Bluetooth communication when the movement of the animal exceeds a movement threshold; determining whether or not the monitoring device is connected to a Wi-Fi network when the monitoring device is not directly connected to the user device via Bluetooth communication; determining whether or not the monitoring device is located in the spatial zone by comparing the location data defining the spatial zone with the location data of the monitoring device when the monitoring device is not connected to the Wi-Fi network; and
transferring alert data to the user device when the monitoring device is not located in the spatial zone.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising identifying an additional Wi-Fi network located in the spatial zone and indicating a safe status for the animal when the monitoring device is connected to the additional Wi-Fi network.
20. The method of claim 18, further comprising identifying a Bluetooth beacon device when the monitoring device is not directly connected to the user device via Bluetooth communication, and using the Bluetooth beacon device to indirectly connect the monitoring device to the user device.
</claims>
</document>
