<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H50/30,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
REFLEXION HEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
JUHAS, BRETT
SUR, SUDIPTO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70726367
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY QUANTIFICATION AND MONITORING
</title>

<abstract>
Certain aspects provide a method of generating a physical activity model, including: receiving, via a motion capture device, motion data corresponding to a plurality of key states associated with a physical activity sequence; for each respective key state in the plurality of key states: determining a plurality of joint positions associated with the respective key state; determining a plurality of body segment positions associated with the respective key state based on the plurality of joint positions; determining a plurality of inter-state differentiation variables for the respective key state; determining one or more state characteristic metrics for the respective key state; and determining a classifier for the respective key state based on the one or more state characteristic metrics; and defining a physical activity model based on the one or more state characteristic metrics and the classifier associated with each key state.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of generating a physical activity model, comprising:
receiving, via a motion capture device, motion data corresponding to a plurality of key states associated with a physical activity sequence;
for each respective key state in the plurality of key states:
determining a plurality of joint positions associated with the respective key state;
determining a plurality of body segment positions associated with the respective key state based on the plurality of joint positions associated with the respective key state; and
determining a plurality of inter-state differentiation variables for the respective key state based on one or more of:
the plurality of joint positions associated with the respective key state; or
the plurality of body segment positions associated with the respective key state;
determining one or more state characteristic metrics for the respective key state based on the plurality of inter-state differentiation variables associated with the respective key state; and
determining a classifier for the respective key state based on the one or more state characteristic metrics; and
defining a physical activity model based on the one or more state characteristic metrics and the classifier associated with each key state.
2. The method of Claim 1, wherein the classifier for the respective key state is configured to provide a score indicating a likelihood of the respective key state in the received motion data.
3. The method of Claim 1 , wherein determining the one or more state characteristic metrics for the respective key state further comprises: receiving a selection, via a user interface of an application, of one or more state characteristic metrics.
4. The method of Claim 1 , wherein determining the one or more state characteristic metrics for the respective key state further comprises: determining a statistical significance of each of the plurality of inter-state differentiation variables for identifying the respective key state; and
selecting as the one or more state characteristic metrics a subset of the plurality of inter-state differentiation variables based on the determined statistical significance of each of the plurality of inter-state differentiation variables.
5. The method of Claim 4, wherein each inter-state differentiation variable in the subset of the plurality of inter-state differentiation variables has a statistical significance above a threshold value.
6. The method of Claim 4, wherein a sum of the statistical significance value for each of the inter-state differentiation variables in the subset of the plurality of inter-state differentiation variables exceeds a threshold value.
7. The method of Claim 1, further comprising:
determining a plurality of joint angles associated with the respective key state based on the plurality of body segments positions associated with the respective key state,
wherein determining the plurality of inter-state differentiation variables for the respective key state is further based on the plurality of joint angles associated with the respective key state of the plurality of key states.
8. The method of Claim 1 , wherein each respective key state of the plurality of key states associated with the physical activity sequence is defined by monitoring a subject performing the respective key state.
9. The method of Claim 1, wherein the motion data comprises a first subset of motion data associated with a first subject and a second subset of motion data associated with a second subject.
10. The method of Claim 1, wherein the motion capture device comprises a depth sensing camera.
11. A processing system, comprising:
a non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising computer-executable instructions; and a processor configured to execute the computer-executable instructions and cause the processing system to perform a method of generating a physical activity model, the method comprising:
receiving, via a motion capture device, motion data corresponding to a plurality of key states associated with a physical activity sequence;
for each respective key state in the plurality of key states:
determining a plurality of joint positions associated with the respective key state; and
determining a plurality of body segment positions associated with the respective key state based on the plurality of joint positions associated with the respective key state; and
determining a plurality of inter-state differentiation variables for the respective key state based on one or more of:
the plurality of joint positions associated with the respective key state; or
the plurality of body segment positions associated with the respective key state;
determining one or more state characteristic metrics for the respective key state based on the plurality of inter-state differentiation variables associated with the respective key state; and
determining a classifier for the respective key state based on the one or more state characteristic metrics; and
defining a physical activity model based on the one or more state characteristic metrics and the classifier associated with each key state.
12. The processing system of Claim 11 , wherein the classifier for the respective key state is configured to provide a score indicating a likelihood of the respective key state in the received motion data.
13. The processing system of Claim 11, wherein determining the one or more state characteristic metrics for the respective key state further comprises: receiving a selection, via a user interface of an application, of one or more state characteristic metrics.
14. The processing system of Claim 11, wherein the method further comprises: determining a plurality of joint angles associated with the respective key state based on the plurality of body segments positions associated with the respective key state,
wherein determining the plurality of inter-state differentiation variables for the respective key state is further based on the plurality of joint angles associated with the respective key state of the plurality of key states.
15. A method for using a physical activity model, comprising:
receiving motion data from a motion capture device;
providing the received motion data to a physical activity model, wherein the physical activity model comprises:
a plurality of classifiers, wherein each classifier of the plurality of classifiers is associated with a key state of a physical activity; and a plurality of state characteristic metrics, wherein each state characteristic metrics of the plurality of state characteristic metrics is associated with one or more of the plurality of classifiers;
receiving, from the physical activity model, a plurality of scores, wherein each score of the plurality of scores is associated with one of the plurality of classifiers; and determining a key state is represented in the received motion data based on the plurality of scores.
16. The method of Claim 15, wherein determining the key state is represented in the received motion data based on the plurality of scores further comprises: determining a score associated with the key state exceeds a threshold value.
17. The method of Claim 16, wherein the score associated with the key state indicates a probability that the key state is represented in the received motion data.
18. The method of Claim 15, further comprising: displaying the plurality of scores in a graphical user interface on a display device.
19. The method of Claim 18, further comprising:
indicating within the graphical user interface on the display device when a respective score of the plurality of scores exceeds a threshold by changing an attribute of the respective score in the graphical user interface, wherein the attribute comprises one or more of: a color of the respective score, a size of the respective score, or a format of the respective score.
20. The method of Claim 15, further comprising:
incrementing a repetition count for the physical activity based on a sequence of received scores; and
displaying the repetition count in a graphical user interface on a display device.
21. The method of Claim 15, wherein the motion capture device is a depth-sensing camera.
</claims>
</document>
