<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T3/00,G06T5/00,G06T5/20,G06T7/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALLEN INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, JIANXU
DING, LIYA
RAFELSKI, SUSANNE MARIE
VIANA, MATHEUS PALHARES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70327510
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEGMENTING 3D INTRACELLULAR STRUCTURES IN MICROSCOPY IMAGES USING AN ITERATIVE DEEP LEARNING WORKFLOW THAT INCORPORATES HUMAN CONTRIBUTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A facility for identifying the boundaries of 3-dimensional structures in 3-dimensional images is described. For each of multiple 3-dimensional images, the facility receives results of a first attempt to identify boundaries of structures in the 3-dimensional image, and causes the results of the first attempt to be presented to a person. For each of a number of 3-dimensional images, the facility receives input generated by the person providing feedback on the results of the first attempt. The facility then uses the following to train a deep-learning network to identify boundaries of 3-dimensional structures in 3-dimensional images: at least a portion of the plurality of 3-dimensional images, at least a portion of the received results, and at least a portion of provided feedback.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method in a computing system for identifying boundaries of 3-dimensional structures in 3-dimensional images, comprising:
for each of a plurality of 3-dimensional images,
receiving results of a first attempt to identify boundaries of structures in the 3-dimensional image;
causing the results of the first attempt to be presented to a person;
for each of a plurality of 3-dimensional images, receiving input generated by the person providing feedback on the results of the first attempt; and
using the following to train a deep-learning network to identify boundaries of 3-dimensional structures in 3-dimensional images: at least a portion of the plurality of 3-dimensional images, at least a portion of the received results, and at least a portion of provided feedback.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the structures are organelles in a biological cell.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein feedback approves the results of the first attempt for a first proper subset of the plurality of
3-dimensional images and rejects the results of the first attempt for a second proper subset of the plurality of 3-dimensional images.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein, for each of at least one of the plurality of 3-dimensional images, the feedback subdivides the results into two or more regions in which structure boundaries should be identified independently.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the deep-learning network is one or more artificial neural networks.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the deep-learning network is a U-net variant.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein each 3-dimensional image is represented by a stack of 2-dimensional images.
8. One or more instances of computer-readable media collectively having contents configured to cause a computing system to perform a method for identifying the boundaries of 3-dimensional structures in 3- dimensional images, comprising:
for each of a plurality of 3-dimensional images, applying a segmenting algorithm among 2D filament filter algorithm, 3D filament filter algorithm, 2D vesselness filter algorithm, 3D vesselness filter algorithm, 2D spot filter algorithm, 3D spot filter algorithm, 2D Laplacian of Gaussian filter algorithm, 3D Laplacian of Gaussian filter algorithm, masked-object
thresholding algorithm, watershed algorithm, and local maximum algorithm to identify boundaries of at least one 3-dimensional structure in the 3-dimensional image; and
using the structure boundaries identified in at least a portion of the plurality of 3-dimensional images as ground truths for training a system of neural networks to identify the boundaries of 3-dimensional structures in 3- dimensional images.
9. The instances of computer-readable media of claim 8, further comprising:
causing at least a portion of the structure boundaries identified in the plurality of 3-dimensional images to be displayed to a person; and receiving input originated by the person during the display of the identified structure boundaries,
and wherein the use of the identified structure boundaries to train the system of neural networks is performed in accordance with the received input.
10. The instances of computer-readable media of claim 8, further comprising applying the trained system of neural networks to a distinguished 3-dimensional image not among the plurality of 3-dimensional images to identify the boundaries of 3-dimensional structures in the
distinguished 3-dimensional image.
11. The instances of computer-readable media of claim 8, further comprising, for each of the plurality of 3-dimensional images, before applying the segmenting algorithm, applying a pre-processing algorithm among min-max normalization algorithm, auto-contrast algorithm, 2D Gaussian smoothing algorithm, 3D Gaussian smoothing algorithm, and edge-preserving smoothing algorithm.
12. The instances of computer-readable media of claim 8, further comprising, for each of the plurality of 3-dimensional images, before using the identified structure boundaries, applying a post-processing algorithm among size filter algorithm, size thresholding algorithm, hole filling algorithm, morphological hole filling algorithm, multi-part thinning algorithm, and topologypreserving thinning algorithm.
13. One or more instances of computer-readable media collectively having contents configured to cause a computing system to perform a method in a computing system for identifying boundaries of 3-dimensional structures in 3-dimensional images, the method comprising:
for each of a plurality of 3-dimensional images,
receiving results of a first attempt to identify boundaries of structures in the 3-dimensional image;
causing the results of the first attempt to be presented to a person;
for each of a plurality of 3-dimensional images, receiving input generated by the person providing feedback on the results of the first attempt; and
using the following to train a deep-learning network to identify boundaries of 3-dimensional structures in 3-dimensional images: at least a portion of the plurality of 3-dimensional images, at least a portion of the received results, and at least a portion of provided feedback.
14. The one or more instances of computer-readable media of claim 13 wherein the structures are organelles in a biological cell.
15. The one or more instances of computer-readable media of claim 13 wherein feedback approves the results of the first attempt for a first proper subset of the plurality of 3-dimensional images and rejects the results of the first attempt for a second proper subset of the plurality of 3-dimensional images.
16. The one or more instances of computer-readable media of claim 13 wherein, for each of at least one of the plurality of 3-dimensional images, the feedback subdivides the results into two or more regions in which structure boundaries should be identified independently.
17. The one or more instances of computer-readable media of claim 13 wherein the deep-learning network is a sequence of artificial neural networks.
18. The one or more instances of computer-readable media of claim 13 wherein the deep-learning network is a U-net variant.
19. The one or more instances of computer-readable media of claim 13 wherein each 3-dimensional image is represented by a stack of 2-dimensional images.
20. One or more instances of computer-readable media collectively storing a segmentation recipe data structure, the data structure comprising:
a plurality of entries, each entry comprising;
information identifying a different biologic structure type; and
information specifying a sequence of segmentation measures to be performed in order to segment images containing one or more biologic structures of the identified biologic structure type,
such that, when an image containing one or more biologic structures of a distinguished biologic structure type is accessed, an entry of the data structure can be selected whose information identifies the distinguished biologic structure type, and the sequence of segmentation measures specified by information of the selected entry can be carried out with respect to the accessed image.
21. The one or more instances of computer-readable media of claim 20 wherein, for each of the plurality of entries, the specified sequence of segmentation measures includes a segmentation algorithm.
22. The one or more instances of computer-readable media of claim 20 wherein, for each of the plurality of entries, the specified sequence of segmentation measures includes a preprocessing step.
23. The one or more instances of computer-readable media of claim 20 wherein, for each of the plurality of entries, the specified sequence of segmentation measures includes a postprocessing step.
24. One or more instances of computer-readable media collectively having contents configured to cause a computing system to perform a method in a computing system for identifying boundaries of biologic structures in an image, the method comprising:
accessing an indication of a biologic structure type appearing in the image;
accessing a segmentation recipe data structure comprising a plurality of entries, each entry comprising:
information identifying a different biologic structure type; and
information specifying a sequence of segmentation measures to be performed in order to segment images containing one or more biologic structures of the identified biologic structure type,
selecting an entry of the data structure whose information identifies the indicated biologic structure type; and
causing the image to be subjected to the sequence of segmentation measures specified by the information of the selected entry to obtain a segmentation of the biologic structures of the indicated biologic structure type in the image.
</claims>
</document>
