<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B10/02,A61B34/10,A61B34/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAMPOTANG, SAMSUN
LIZDAS, David Erik
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72426815
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GUIDANCE AND TRACKING SYSTEM FOR TEMPLATED AND TARGETED BIOPSY AND TREATMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are various embodiments for a guidance and tracking system that facilitate templated and targeted biopsy and/or treatment. A guidance and tracking system may include a catheter having a six-degree-of-freedom magnetic tracking sensor, where the catheter can be positioned and anchored in an organ or a natural passage of an organ such as the urethral passage in the prostate of a patient. Using tracking sensors, a computing device may be employed to track a location and orientation of an organ and medical instruments during a treatment or diagnostic procedure. The computing device may determine a position and orientation of the medical instrument relative to the organ of interest. A graphical user interface including real, three-dimensional objects to overlay and adjust biopsy templates onto a real three-dimensional organ or lesion that is manually reconstructed prior to the biopsy procedure. A simulator or simulator mode can be provided for training.
</abstract>

<claims>
Therefore, the following is claimed:
1. A non-fused tracking and guidance system, comprising:
a body organ tracking sensor;
a tracked medical imaging probe for tracking an imaging device in relation to an organ;
a tracked biopsy or treatment device for tracking the biopsy or treatment device in relation to the organ;
at least one computing device comprising program instructions stored in memory thereon that, when executed, direct the at least one computing device to:
provide guidance associated with a position and an orientation of the tracked medical imaging probe to generate a plurality of images of the organ, wherein the position and the orientation of the medical imaging device are determined using the body organ tracking sensor;
generate a three-dimensional reconstruction of the organ or a feature associated therewith using the plurality of images;
cause the three-dimensional reconstruction of the organ or the feature associated therewith and a virtual template comprising at least one sampling region superimposed on the organ to be shown in a display device; and
provide guidance for a collection of tissue at the at least one sampling region.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of images are a plurality of two dimensional ultrasound images.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein at least one of the plurality of two-dimensional ultrasound images is shown in the display contemporaneously with the three-dimensional reconstruction of the organ in a three-dimensional visualization of tracked tools within a body sensor space.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein:
the medical imaging device is a transrectal ultrasound probe; the organ comprises a prostate and the guidance for the collection of tissue is performed during a prostate biopsy procedure; and
the virtual template comprises a prostate biopsy core template.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional reconstruction of the organ is generated using a tracking sensor positioned outside of a body of a patient having the organ.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the body organ tracking sensor is a tracking sensor having six degrees-of-freedom (6-DOF).
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the guidance associated with the position and the orientation of the tracked medical imaging probe to generate the plurality of images of the organ is provided based at least in part on a tracking of a tracking sensor positioned in a patient having the organ.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional reconstruction of the organ comprises a three-dimensional reconstruction of a lesion, cavity, abscess, or region of interest detected on the organ or imported into the organ.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computing device is further directed to perform at least one of: adjusting core and template locations and orientations, adjusting a number of cores, and changing a sequence of cores in a custom template.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the guidance for the collection of tissue at one or each of the plurality of sampling regions is provided without an imaging modality, wherein the imaging modality not being needed during a biopsy or a treatment applied using the threedimensional reconstruction of the organ in a real, three-dimensional visualization of tracked tools in a body sensor space.
11. A method, comprising:
providing a body organ tracking sensor, a tracked medical imaging probe, a tracked biopsy or treatment device for tracking the biopsy or treatment device in relation to an organ, and at least one computing device;
providing guidance associated with a position and an orientation of the tracked medical imaging probe to generate a plurality of images of the organ, wherein the position and the orientation of the medical imaging probe are determined relative to the body organ tracking sensor;
generating a three-dimensional reconstruction of the organ or an associated feature using the plurality of images;
causing the three-dimensional reconstruction of the organ or the associated feature and a virtual template comprising one or a plurality of sampling or treatment regions superimposed on the organ to be shown in a display device; and
providing guidance for a collection of tissue, fluid, or treatment at one or each of the plurality of sampling or treatment regions.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the plurality of images are a plurality of twodimensional ultrasound images.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein at least one of the plurality of twodimensional ultrasound images are shown in the display contemporaneously with the threedimensional reconstruction of the organ in a three-dimensional visualization of tracked tools within a body sensor space.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein:
the medical imaging device is a transrectal ultrasound probe; the organ comprises a prostate and the guidance for the collection of tissue is performed during a prostate biopsy procedure; and
the virtual template comprises a prostate biopsy core template.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the three-dimensional reconstruction of the organ or body part is generated using a tracking sensor positioned outside of a body of a patient having the organ.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the body organ tracking sensor is a tracking sensor having six degrees-of-freedom (6-DOF).
17. The method of claim 11 , wherein the guidance associated with the position and the orientation of the tracked medical imaging probe to generate the plurality of images of the organ is provided based at least in part on a tracking of a tracking sensor positioned in a patient having the organ.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein the three-dimensional reconstruction of the organ or body part comprises a three-dimensional reconstruction of a lesion, cavity, or region of interest detected on the organ or imported into the organ.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one computing device is further directed to perform at least one of: adjusting core and template locations and orientations, adjusting a number of cores, and changing a sequence of cores in a custom template.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein the guidance for the treatment or collection of tissue or fluid at one or each of the plurality of treatment or sampling regions is provided without an imaging modality, wherein the imaging modality is not needed during a biopsy or a treatment applied using the three-dimensional reconstruction of the organ in a real, threedimensional visualization of tracked tools in a body sensor space.
</claims>
</document>
