<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/10,G06N20/20,G06N3/08,G06N3/12,G06N5/00,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
AGARWAL, NIPUN
AGRAWAL, SANDEEP
IDICULA, SAM
VARADARAJAN, VENKATANATHAN
YAKOVLEV, ANATOLY
CAI, Jingxiao
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72916548
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADAPTIVE SAMPLING FOR IMBALANCE MITIGATION AND DATASET SIZE REDUCTION IN MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
According to an embodiment, a method includes generating a first dataset sample from a dataset, calculating a first validation score for the first dataset sample and a machine learning model, and determining whether a difference in validation score between the first validation score and a second validation score satisfies a first criteria. If the difference in validation score does not satisfy the first criteria, the method includes generating a second dataset sample from the dataset. If the difference in validation score does satisfy the first criteria, the method includes updating a convergence value and determining whether the updated convergence value satisfies a second criteria. If the updated convergence value satisfies the second criteria, the method includes returning the first dataset sample. If the updated convergence value does not satisfy the second criteria, the method includes generating the second dataset sample from the dataset.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method comprising:
generating a first dataset sample from a dataset, wherein the first dataset sample is a subset of the dataset;
calculating a first validation score for the first dataset sample and a machine learning model;
determining whether a difference in validation score between the first validation score and a second validation score satisfies a first criteria;
if the difference in validation score does not satisfy the first criteria, generating a second dataset sample from the dataset, wherein the second dataset sample is a subset of the dataset;
if the difference in validation score does satisfy the first criteria:
updating a convergence value;
determining whether the updated convergence value satisfies a second criteria; if the updated convergence value satisfies the second criteria, returning the first dataset sample;
if the updated convergence value does not satisfy the second criteria, generating the second dataset sample from the dataset.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
calculating a third validation score for the second dataset sample and the machine
learning model;
determining whether a difference in validation score between the third validation score and the first validation score meets the first criteria;
if the difference in validation score between the third validation score and the first
validation score does not meet the first criteria, generating a third dataset sample from the dataset, wherein the third dataset sample is a subset of the dataset; if the difference in validation scores between the third validation score and the first validation score does meet the first criteria:
updating the convergence value; determining whether the updated convergence value meets the second criteria; if the updated convergence value meets the second criteria, returning the second dataset sample;
if the updated convergence value does not meet the second criteria, generating the third dataset sample from the dataset.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the difference in validation score between the first validation score and a second validation score meets the first criteria when the difference in validation score is less than a first threshold value.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the updated convergence value meets the second criteria when the updated convergence value is greater than a second threshold value.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the dataset includes a plurality of classes, and wherein generating the first dataset sample further comprises under-sampling each of the plurality of classes that has a class size greater than a class-size parameter.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising:
if the difference in validation scores does not meet the first criteria, increasing the classsize parameter by a growth factor, and generating the second dataset sample from the dataset by under-sampling each of the plurality of classes that has a class size greater than the increased class-size parameter;
if the updated convergence value does not meet the second criteria, increasing the classsize parameter by the growth factor, and generating the second dataset sample from the dataset by under-sampling each of the plurality of classes that has a class size greater than the increased class-size parameter.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the second dataset sample has a greater size than the first dataset sample.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein each of generating the first dataset sample and generating the second dataset sample includes performing a random under-sampling of the dataset.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the first validation score and the second validation score is a cross-validation score calculated for a respective dataset sample and machine learning model.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein if the difference in validation scores does not meet the first criteria, resetting the convergence value.
11. One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions, which when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform functions comprising:
generating a first dataset sample from a dataset, wherein the first dataset sample is a subset of the dataset;
calculating a first validation score for the first dataset sample and a machine learning model;
determining whether a difference in validation score between the first validation score and a second validation score satisfies a first criteria;
if the difference in validation score does not satisfy the first criteria, generating a second dataset sample from the dataset, wherein the second dataset sample is a subset of the dataset;
if the difference in validation score does satisfy the first criteria:
updating a convergence value;
determining whether the updated convergence value satisfies a second criteria; if the updated convergence value satisfies the second criteria, returning the first dataset sample;
if the updated convergence value does not satisfy the second criteria, generating the second dataset sample from the dataset.
12. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11 storing instructions, which when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform functions comprising:
calculating a third validation score for the second dataset sample and the machine
learning model;
determining whether a difference in validation score between the third validation score and the first validation score meets the first criteria;
if the difference in validation score between the third validation score and the first
validation score does not meet the first criteria, generating a third dataset sample from the dataset, wherein the third dataset sample is a subset of the dataset;
if the difference in validation scores between the third validation score and the first
validation score does meet the first criteria:
updating the convergence value;
determining whether the updated convergence value meets the second criteria; if the updated convergence value meets the second criteria, returning the second dataset sample;
if the updated convergence value does not meet the second criteria, generating the third dataset sample from the dataset.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the difference in validation score between the first validation score and a second validation score meets the first criteria when the difference in validation score is less than a first threshold value.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the updated convergence value meets the second criteria when the updated convergence value is greater than a second threshold value.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11,
wherein the dataset includes a plurality of classes;
the one-or more non-transitory computer-readable storage medium further storing
instructions, which when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform the function of generating the first dataset sample by under-sampling each of the plurality of classes that has a class size greater than a class-size parameter.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15 storing instructions, which when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform functions comprising:
if the difference in validation scores does not meet the first criteria, increasing the classsize parameter by a growth factor, and generating the second dataset sample from the dataset by under-sampling each of the plurality of classes that has a class size greater than the increased class-size parameter;
if the updated convergence value does not meet the second criteria, increasing the classsize parameter by the growth factor, and generating the second dataset sample from the dataset by under-sampling each of the plurality of classes that has a class size greater than the increased class-size parameter.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the second dataset sample has a greater size than the first dataset sample.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11 storing instructions, which when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform functions comprising:
generating the first dataset sample by performing a random under-sampling of the
dataset;
generating the second dataset sample by performing a random under-sampling of the dataset.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein each of the first validation score and the second validation score is a cross-validation score calculated for a respective dataset sample and machine learning model.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11 storing instructions, which when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform functions comprising, if the difference in validation scores does not meet the first criteria, resetting the convergence value.
</claims>
</document>
