<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04M15/00,H04M15/06,H04M3/493,H04W12/00,H04W12/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PINDROP SECURITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
AKANKSHA
LAKHDHAR, KHALED
NELMS, TERRY
PATIL, KAILASH
TAILOR, CHIRAG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71836820
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS OF GATEWAY DETECTION IN A TELEPHONE NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments described herein provide for detecting whether an Automatic Number Identification (ANI) associated with an incoming call is a gateway, according to rules-based models and machine learning models generated by the computer using call data stored in one or more databases.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method for detecting gateways, the method comprising:
generating, by a computer, a plurality of features for a plurality of caller Automatic
Number Identifications (ANIs) based upon call data associated with a plurality of phone calls involving the plurality of caller ANIs;
calculating, by the computer, a gateway score for each respective caller ANI based upon a set of one or more features associated with the respective caller ANI in the plurality of features; and
detecting, by the computer, that at least one caller ANI of the plurality of caller ANIs is a gateway ANI, in response to determining that the gateway score for a gateway ANI is above a detection threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one feature of the plurality of features is selected from the group consisting of: a volume score, a spread score, and a call diversity score.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising, for each respective caller ANI of the plurality of caller ANIs, generating, by the computer, the volume score for the caller ANI based upon a number of calls received from the caller ANI.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising, for each respective caller ANI of the plurality of caller ANIs, generating, by the computer, a spread score for the caller ANI based upon a number of callees that received calls from the caller ANI.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising, for each respective caller ANI of the plurality of caller ANIs, generating, by the computer, a call diversity score for the caller ANI based upon a number of callee-types that received calls from the caller ANI.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising updating, by the computer, a database to include a gateway indicator for each of the at least one gateway ANIs detected.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising
receiving, by the computer, the call data for a new caller ANI from a database configured to store the call data for the plurality of calls; and
detecting, by the computer, that the new caller ANI matches a gateway ANI in the database having the gateway indicator.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising:
determining, by the computer, that an incoming ANI does not match at least on caller in the plurality of caller ANIs stored in the database; and
identifying, by the computer, a gateway-prefix for each of the gateway ANIs;
detecting, by the computer, that the incoming ANI is a gateway ANI based upon a prefix of the incoming ANI matching at least one gateway-prefix.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving, by the computer, the call data from a database, the call data having a timestamp satisfying a lookback time threshold.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein receiving the data from the database further comprises: transmitting, by the computer, a query for the data associated with the one or more calls at a refresh time interval, wherein the computer re-calculates the gateway score for each caller ANI in the call data at the refresh time interval.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer re-calculates the gateway score for a caller ANI of the plurality of caller ANIs in response to receiving an incoming ANI matching the caller ANI.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising
generating, by the computer, a feature vector of the caller ANI based upon the call data for a plurality of calls for the caller ANI, the feature vector comprising:
a number of calls from the caller ANI to each callee receiving a largest number of calls normalized by a calls threshold,
a number of calls from the caller ANI to each type of callee receiving a largest number of calls normalized by the calls threshold,
a lowest interarrival interval between consecutive calls, and a network type of the caller ANI;
executing, by the computer, a machine learning model on each feature vector to determine whether the caller ANI is associated with a gateway, according to a contamination factor, thereby generating a gateway score; and
indicating, by the computer, that the caller ANI is associated with a gateway based upon executing the machine learning model such that the computer utilizes the indication to authenticate an incoming phone call from the caller ANI.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising generating, by the computer, a combined gateway score for the caller ANI based on each gateway score for the caller ANI.
14. A computer-implemented method for detecting gateways, the method comprising:
generating, by a computer, one or more feature vectors for one or more caller Automatic
Number Identifications (ANIs) based upon call data extracted for a plurality of calls, wherein each feature vector for each ANI is based upon:
a number of calls from the caller ANI to each of the callees receiving the largest number of calls normalized by a calls threshold,
a number of calls from the caller ANI to each type of callee receiving the largest number of calls,
a lowest interarrival interval between consecutive calls, and
a network type of the caller ANI;
generating, by the computer, for each respective caller ANI, a gateway score based upon an anomaly detection algorithm using the one or more feature vectors;
detecting, by the computer, a gateway is associated with a caller ANI, in response to determining that the gateway score for the caller ANI satisfies a detection threshold.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising authenticating, by the computer, an incoming call associated with a second ANI based upon one or more call features associated with the incoming call, the one or more call features including the second ANI.
16. The method of claim 14, authenticating, by the computer, an incoming call associated with the caller ANI based upon one or more call features associated with the incoming call, the one or more call features excluding the caller ANI.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the detection threshold is based on a relative distance of the gateway score from at least one other gateway score.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein the call data for the plurality of calls is extracted according to a lookback window.
19. The method of claim 14, further comprising
generating, by the computer, a volume score for the one or more caller ANIs based upon the number of calls received from the caller ANI and normalized by the calls threshold;
generating, by the computer, a spread score for the caller ANI based upon the number of callees that called from the caller ANI contained in the call data and normalized by a callee threshold;
generating, by the computer, a call diversity score for the caller ANI, based upon a number of types of callees that called from the caller ANI; and
calculating, by the computer, a second gateway score for the caller ANI based upon the volume score, the spread score, and the call diversity score.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising generating, by the computer, a combined gateway score for the caller ANI based on each gateway score for the caller ANI.
</claims>
</document>
