<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F03D7/04,F03D9/25
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
EVANS, SCOTT CHARLES
ZHENG, DANIAN
SHARTZER, SAMUEL BRYAN
MUNOZ, RAUL
RITTENHOUSE, BRIAN ALLEN
DAVOUST, SAMUEL
ZETINA, Ricardo
GIL, Alvaro Enrique
VIRANI, Nurali
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69941523
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ASSESSING AND VALIDATING WIND TURBINE AND WIND FARM PERFORMANCE
</title>

<abstract>
A method for assessing or validating wind turbine or wind farm performance produced by one or more upgrades is provided. Measurements of operating data from wind turbines in a wind farm are obtained. Baseline models of performance are generated, and each of the baseline models is developed from a different portion of the operating data. A generating step filters the wind turbines so that they are in a balanced randomized state. An optimal baseline model of performance is selected from the baseline models and the optimal baseline model includes direction. The optimal baseline model of performance and an actual performance of the wind farm or wind turbine is compared. The comparing step determines a difference between an optimal baseline model of power output and an actual power output of the wind farm/turbine. The difference is reflective of a change in the power output produced by the upgrades.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for assessing or validating wind turbine or wind farm performance produced by one or more upgrades, the method comprising:
measuring operating data, via one or more sensors, from one or more wind turbines of a wind farm;
generating, via a processor, a plurality of baseline models of performance of the wind farm or a plurality of baseline models of performance of a wind turbine in the wind farm from at least a portion of the operating data, wherein each of the baseline models of performance is developed from a different portion of operating data from one or more wind turbines of the wind farm, the generating step including filtering the one or more wind turbines so that the one or more wind turbines are in a balanced randomized state;
selecting, via the processor, an optimal baseline model of performance from the plurality of baseline models the optimal baseline model including direction; and
comparing, via the processor, the optimal baseline model of performance and an actual performance of the wind farm or the wind turbine, wherein the actual performance of the wind farm or the wind turbine is determined after one or more wind turbines of the wind farm are modified by the one or more upgrades that have been installed for the one or more wind turbines, the upgrades including at least one of a tip speed ratio, pitch setting, or yaw offset setting and wherein comparing the optimal baseline model of performance and the actual performance of the wind farm or wind turbine comprises determining a difference between an optimal baseline model of power output and an actual power output of the wind farm or wind turbine, wherein the difference is reflective of a change in the power output produced by the one or more upgrades.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the optimal baseline model of power output comprises an annual power output of the wind farm or single wind turbine.
3. The method of claims 1-2, wherein generating the plurality of baseline models of performance of the wind farm from the operating data further comprises: selecting one or more wind turbines for each of the baseline models; selecting subsets of operating data relating to each of the selected wind turbines; and
creating each of the baseline models from the subsets of operating data.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising evaluating, via the processor, each of the baseline models of performance of the wind farm or a wind turbine.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein evaluating each of the baseline models further comprises comparing each of the baseline models to additional subsets of operating data relating to each of the selected wind turbines for each baseline model, wherein the additional subsets of operating data are not used in creating the baseline models.
6. The method of claim 3, further comprising eliminating baseline models that contain the one or more wind turbines modified by the one or more upgrades.
7. The method of any of the preceding claims, further comprising providing or withholding the one or more upgrades to or from the wind turbines of the wind farm based upon a desired validation accuracy of the wind farm performance improvement measurements.
8. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the one or more upgrades comprise any one of or a combination of the following: rotor blade chord extensions, software upgrades, controls upgrades, hardware upgrades, wake controls, aerodynamic upgrades, blade tip extensions, vortex generators, winglets, turbine performance optimization controls.
9. The method of any of the preceding claims, further comprising generating baseline models of power output for a plurality of wind directions, or the sine and cosine of median wind farm direction are utilized in the machine learning algorithm as features for a single model.
10. The method of any of the preceding claims, further comprising developing a long-term power distribution by transforming a pre-specified long-term wind speed distribution based on a reference power curve.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising determining an annual energy production (AEP) change of the wind farm in response to the one or more upgrades by integrating the change in power output produced by the one or more upgrades with respect to the long-term power distribution.
12. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the one or more sensors comprise any one of or a combination of the following: accelerometers, pressure sensors, angle of attack sensors, vibration sensors, Miniature Inertial Measurement Units (MIMUs), camera systems, fiber optic systems, anemometers, wind vanes, Sonic Detection and Ranging (SODAR) sensors, infrared lasers, Light Detecting and Ranging (LIDAR) sensors, radiometers, pitot tubes, or rawinsondes.
13. A method for assessing or validating wind turbine performance, the method comprising:
measuring operating data, via one or more sensors, from the wind turbine; generating, via a processor, a plurality of baseline models of performance of the wind turbine from at least a portion of the operating data, wherein each of the baseline models of performance is developed from a different portion of the operating data, the generating step including filtering the data so that the data is in a balanced randomized state;
selecting, via the processor, an optimal baseline model of performance from the plurality of baseline models, the optimal baseline model including direction; and
comparing, via the processor, the optimal baseline model of performance and an actual performance of the wind turbine, the baseline models including at least one of a tip speed ratio, pitch setting, or yaw offset setting and wherein comparing the optimal baseline model of performance and the actual performance of the wind turbine comprises determining a difference between an optimal baseline model of power output and an actual power output of the wind turbine, wherein the difference is reflective of a change in the power output produced by the absence or presence of one or more upgrades.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the optimal baseline model of power output comprises an annual power output of the wind turbine.
15. The method of claims 13-14, wherein the one or more upgrades comprise any one of or a combination of the following: rotor blade chord extensions, software upgrades, controls upgrades, hardware upgrades, wake controls, aerodynamic upgrades, blade tip extensions, vortex generators, winglets, turbine performance optimization controls.
16. The method of claims 13-15, further comprising generating baseline models of power output for a plurality of wind directions, or the sine and cosine of median wind farm direction are utilized in the machine learning algorithm as features for a single model.
17. The method of claims 13-16, further comprising developing a long-term power distribution by transforming a pre-specified long-term wind speed distribution based on a reference power curve.
18. The method of claims 13-17, wherein the one or more sensors comprise any one of or a combination of the following: accelerometers, pressure sensors, angle of attack sensors, vibration sensors, Miniature Inertial Measurement Units (MIMUs), camera systems, fiber optic systems, anemometers, wind vanes, Sonic Detection and Ranging (SODAR) sensors, infrared lasers, Light Detecting and Ranging (LIDAR) sensors, radiometers, pitot tubes, or rawinsondes.
19. A system for validating one or more wind farm performance measurements produced by one or more upgrades, the system comprising:
a plurality of sensors configured to measure operating data from one or more wind turbines in a wind farm; and a controller configured to perform a plurality of operations, the plurality of operations comprising:
generating a plurality of baseline models of performance of the wind farm from at least a portion of the operating data, wherein each of the baseline models of performance is developed from a different portion of operating data from one or more wind turbines of the wind farm, the generating step including filtering the one or more turbines so that the one or more turbines are in a balanced randomized state,
selecting an optimal baseline model of performance from the plurality of baseline models, the optimal baseline model including direction, and
comparing the optimal baseline model of performance and an actual performance of the wind farm, wherein the actual performance of the wind farm is determined after one or more wind turbines of the wind farm are modified by the one or more upgrades that have been installed for the one or more wind turbines of the wind farm, the upgrades including at least one of tip speed ratio and pitch setting, and wherein comparing the optimal baseline model of performance and the actual performance of the wind farm comprises determining a difference between an optimal baseline model of power output and an actual power output of the wind farm, wherein the difference is reflective of a change in the power output produced by the one or more upgrades.
20. The system of claim 19, further comprising assessing performance of individual wind turbines or groups of wind turbines to determine underperformance in the absence of an upgrade.
</claims>
</document>
