<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/107,A61B8/00,A61B8/08,A61B8/14,G06T7/00,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CANFIELD, EARL
HOLMES, ANNE
HARRISON, Gerard
ZONG, Richard
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70861500
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GUIDED ULTRASOUND IMAGING
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure describes imaging systems configured to generate volumetric images of a target feature based on anatomical landmarks identified during an ultrasound scan and in accordance with a user-selected view. Systems can include an ultrasound transducer configured to acquire echo signals responsive to ultrasound pulses transmitted toward a target region. A processor coupled with the transducer may present illustrative volumetric images of the target feature, each image corresponding to a particular view, for a user to select. The processor can then identify anatomical landmarks corresponding to the target feature embodied within 2D image frames, and based on the identified landmarks and user-selected view, provide instructions for manipulating the transducer to a target local to generate a 2D image frame specific to the view. Echo signals are then acquired at the target locale and used to generate an actual volumetric image of the target feature corresponding to the user-selected view.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. An ultrasound imaging system comprising:
an ultrasound transducer configured to acquire echo signals responsive to ultrasound pulses transmitted toward a target region;
one or more processors in communication with the ultrasound transducer and configured to:
present, to a user, one or more illustrative volumetric images of a target feature, each illustrative volumetric image corresponding to a particular view of the target image; receive a user selection of one of the illustrative volumetric images; generate two-dimensional (2D) image frames from the acquired echo signals of the target region;
identify one or more anatomical landmarks corresponding to the target feature in the generated 2D image frames;
based on the anatomical landmarks and the particular view of the user-selected volumetric image, provide an instruction for manipulating the ultrasound transducer to a target locale in order to generate at least one 2D image frame specific to the particular view of the user-selected volumetric image;
cause the ultrasound transducer to acquire additional echo signals at the target locale; and
generate, with the acquired additional echo signals, an actual volumetric image of the target feature and corresponding to the particular view of the user-selected volumetric image.
2. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to identify the one or more anatomical landmarks via image segmentation.
3. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to identify the one or more anatomical landmarks via implementation of a neural network trained to recognize the anatomical landmarks.
4. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 1 , wherein the one or more processors are further configured to apply an artificial light source to the actual volumetric image in accordance with the particular view.
5. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 1, wherein the target feature comprises a face of an unborn baby.
6. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to generate the instruction for manipulating the ultrasound transducer by inputting the 2D image frames to an artificial neural network trained to compare the 2D image frames to stored image frames embodying the target feature.
7. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 6, wherein the artificial neural network is configured to generate a new instruction for manipulating the ultrasound transducer upon repositioning of the ultrasound transducer.
8. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to define a region of interest within the 2D image frame specific to the particular view of the user-selected volumetric image.
9 The ultrasound imaging system of claim 1, further comprising a controller configured to switch the ultrasound transducer from a 2D imaging mode to a volumetric imaging mode.
10. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 9, wherein the controller is configured to switch the ultrasound transducer from the 2D imaging mode to the volumetric imaging mode automatically upon receiving an indication from the one or more processors that the region of interest has been defined.
11. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 1, further comprising a user interface communicatively coupled with the one or more processors and configured to display the instruction for manipulating the ultrasound transducer to the target locale.
12. A method of ultrasound imaging, the method comprising:
acquiring echo signals responsive to ultrasound pulses transmitted toward a target region;
presenting, to a user, one or more illustrative volumetric images of a target feature, each illustrative volumetric image corresponding to a particular view of the target image; receiving a user selection of one of the illustrative volumetric images; generating two-dimensional (2D) image frames from the acquired echo signals of the target region;
identifying one or more anatomical landmarks corresponding to the target feature in the generated 2D image frames;
based on the anatomical landmarks and the particular view of the user-selected volumetric image, providing an instruction for manipulating the ultrasound transducer to a target locale in order to generate at least one 2D image frame specific to the particular view of the user-selected volumetric image;
causing the ultrasound transducer to acquire additional echo signals at the target locale; and
generating, with the acquired additional echo signals, an actual volumetric image of the target feature and corresponding to the particular view of the user-selected volumetric image.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising applying an artificial light source, an image contrast adjustment, or both to the actual volumetric image.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the target feature comprises a face of an unborn baby.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein identifying the one or more anatomical landmarks involves image segmentation or implementation of at least one neural network trained to recognize the anatomical landmarks.
16. The method of claim 12, further comprising displaying the instruction for manipulating the ultrasound transducer.
17. The method of claim 12, further comprising defining a region of interest within the 2D image frame specific to the particular view of the user-selected volumetric image.
18. The method of claim 12, further comprising:
identifying additional anatomical landmarks of the target feature upon manipulation of an ultrasound transducer; and
generating additional instructions for manipulating the ultrasound transducer based on the additional anatomical landmarks identified upon manipulation of the ultrasound transducer.
19. The method of claim 12, further comprising switching the ultrasound transducer from the 2D imaging mode to a volumetric imaging mode upon receiving an indication that a region of interest has been identified.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising executable instructions, which when executed cause a processor of a medical imaging system to perform any of the methods of claims 12-19.
</claims>
</document>
