<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/04,G06N99/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NUANCE COMMUNICATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
HELLETZGRUBER, Matthais
ÖZ, Mehmet Mert
UNGAR, Peter
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73745502
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR QUERYING DATA POINTS FROM GRAPH DATA STRUCTURES
</title>

<abstract>
A method, computer program product, and computing system includes generating a graph data structure including a plurality of data points. A query for the graph data structure may be received via a user interface. At least one data point from the plurality of data points may be identified, via the user interface, in the graph data structure based upon, at least in part, the query. A selection of a data point from the identified at least one data point may be received via the user interface. The selected data point may be provided to one or more electronic data sources.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, executed on a computing device, comprising:
generating, at the computing device, a graph data structure including a plurality of data points;
receiving, via a user interface, a query for the graph data structure;
identifying, via the user interface, at least one data point from the plurality of data points in the graph data structure based upon, at least in part, the query; receiving, via the user interface, a selection of a data point from the identified at least one data point; and
providing the selected data point to one or more electronic data sources.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein identifying the at least one data point from the plurality of data points in the graph data structure includes one or more of:
rendering, via the user interface, the at least one data point in a list format; and
rendering, via the user interface, the at least one data point in a tree format.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein identifying the at least one data point from the plurality of data points in the graph data structure includes:
determining one or more synonymous queries associated with the query; and
identifying, via the user interface, the at least one data point from the plurality of data points in the graph data structure based upon, at least in part, the one or more synonymous queries.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein identifying the at least one data point from the plurality of data points in the graph data structure includes:
adding a data point to the graph data structure based upon, at least in part, the query.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each data point of the plurality of data points in the graph data structure is associated with a unique identifier that maps to a standard classification code.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein providing the selected data point to one or more data sources includes:
automatically populating at least a portion of at least one electronic form based upon, at least in part, the selected data point.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the at least one electronic form includes at least one electronic health record form and the one or more electronic data sources include one or more healthcare databases.
8. A computer program product residing on a non-transitory computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored thereon which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising:
generating a graph data structure including a plurality of data points; receiving, via a user interface, a query for the graph data structure;
identifying, via the user interface, at least one data point from the plurality of data points in the graph data structure based upon, at least in part, the query; receiving, via the user interface, a selection of a data point from the identified at least one data point; and
providing the selected data point to one or more electronic data sources.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein identifying the at least one data point from the plurality of data points in the graph data structure includes one or more of:
rendering, via the user interface, the at least one data point in a list format; and
rendering, via the user interface, the at least one data point in a tree format.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein identifying the at least one data point from the plurality of data points in the graph data structure includes:
determining one or more synonymous queries associated with the query; and
identifying, via the user interface, the at least one data point from the plurality of data points in the graph data structure based upon, at least in part, the one or more synonymous queries.
11. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein identifying the at least one data point from the plurality of data points in the graph data structure includes:
adding a data point to the graph data structure based upon, at least in part, the query.
12. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein each data point of the plurality of data points in the graph data structure is associated with a unique identifier that maps to a standard classification code.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein providing the selected data point to one or more data sources includes: automatically populating at least a portion of at least one electronic form based upon, at least in part, the selected data point.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the at least one electronic form includes at least one electronic health record form and the one or more electronic data sources include one or more healthcare databases.
15. A computing system including a processor and memory configured to perform operations comprising:
generating a graph data structure including a plurality of data points; receiving, via a user interface, a query for the graph data structure;
identifying, via the user interface, at least one data point from the plurality of data points in the graph data structure based upon, at least in part, the query; receiving, via the user interface, a selection of a data point from the identified at least one data point; and
providing the selected data point to one or more electronic data sources.
16. The computing system of claim 15, wherein identifying the at least one data point from the plurality of data points in the graph data structure includes one or more of:
rendering, via the user interface, the at least one data point in a list format; and
rendering, via the user interface, the at least one data point in a tree format.
17. The computing system of claim 15, wherein identifying the at least one data point from the plurality of data points in the graph data structure includes:
determining one or more synonymous queries associated with the query; and identifying, via the user interface, the at least one data point from the plurality of data points in the graph data structure based upon, at least in part, the one or more synonymous queries.
18. The computing system of claim 15, wherein identifying the at least one data point from the plurality of data points in the graph data structure includes:
adding a data point to the graph data structure based upon, at least in part, the query.
19. The computing system of claim 15, wherein each data point of the plurality of data points in the graph data structure is associated with a unique identifier that maps to a standard classification code.
20. The computing system of claim 15, wherein providing the selected data point to one or more data sources includes:
automatically populating at least a portion of at least one electronic form based upon, at least in part, the selected data point.
21. The computing system of claim 20, wherein the at least one electronic form includes at least one electronic health record form and the one or more electronic data sources include one or more healthcare databases.
</claims>
</document>
