<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06F21/62,G10L15/10,G10L25/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PAYPAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
WARDMAN, BRADLEY
ERICSON, BRADEN CHRISTOPHER
YADAV, Meethil Vijay
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017718
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DECENTRALIZED TRUST USING BLOCKCHAIN FOR TRACKING AND VALIDATION OF VOICE COMMUNICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods of authenticating voice data using a ledger (blockchain). Examples include a scalable and seamless system that uses blockchain technologies to distribute trust of a conversation, authenticate persons in a conversation, track their characteristics and also to keep records of conversations. In some examples, smart phones, wearables, and Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices can be used to record and track conversations between individuals. These devices can each be used to create entries for the blockchain or a single device could be used to keep track of the entirety of the conversation. Fuzzy hashing may be used to compare newly created entries with previous entries on the ledger.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of authenticating voice data using a ledger, the method comprising: receiving, by a node device configured to maintain a ledger comprising a plurality of blocks, a block of voice data comprising a first signature, the block of voice data generated based on one or more statements made by a participant in a conversation, the first signature comprising a first hash of first voice features associated with the one or more statements made by the participant in the block of voice data;
comparing the first signature with a second signature associated with a latest block in the ledger, the second signature comprising a second hash of second voice features associated with the latest block in the ledger;
determining, based on a comparison between the first signature and the second signature, that a similarity between the first signature and the second signature is above a threshold value;
responsive to the determining, validating the block of voice data; and
adding the validated block of voice data to the ledger.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein adding the validated block of voice data to the ledger comprises adding a hash of the latest block to the block of voice data.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising sending an updated ledger to at least one other node device.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving encrypted voice data associated with the block of voice data;
storing the encrypted voice data; and
adding a location of the stored encrypted voice data to the block of voice data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first hash of voice features and the second hash of voice features are each results of a fuzzy hashing algorithm.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first voice features include at least one of a pitch, a tone, a speech speed, an enunciation, an intonation, a rate, or a rhythm.
7. The method of claim 1,
wherein the block of voice data further comprises a plurality of transactions, wherein each transaction of the plurality of transactions is associated with a statement of voice data and comprises a signature comprising a hash of voice features of the statement of voice data.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein:
comparing the first signature with a second signature comprises comparing each signature of the plurality of transactions with the second signature, and
determining the match comprises determining a match when the comparing of each signature of the plurality of transactions with the second signature is above the threshold value.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving a second block of voice data, the second block of voice data generated based on one or more statements made by a second participant in the conversation;
verifying the second block of voice data for inclusion on a second ledger; and adding the second block of voice data to the second ledger.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising:
receiving first encrypted voice data associated with the block of voice data associated with the conversation;
receiving second encrypted voice data associated with the second block of voice data associated with the conversation;
receiving an encryption key configured to decrypt the first encrypted voice data and the second encrypted voice data;
sending the encryption key to a first device associated with the participant in the conversation and to a second device associated with the second participant in the
conversation.
11. A system, comprising:
at least one node device, wherein each node device comprises:
a first non-transitory memory; and
one or more first hardware processors coupled to the first non-transitory memory and configured to execute instructions from the first non-transitory memory to cause the node device to perform operations comprising:
receiving a block of voice data comprising a first signature, the first signature comprising a first hash of first voice features in the block of voice data;
comparing the first signature with a second signature associated with a latest block in a ledger, the second signature comprising a second hash of second voice features associated with the latest block in the ledger;
determining, based on a comparison between the first signature and the second signature, that a similarity between the first signature and the second signature is above a threshold value;
responsive to the determining, validating the block of voice data; and adding the validated block of voice data to the ledger.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise:
receiving encrypted voice data associated with the block of voice data;
storing the encrypted voice data; and
adding a location of the stored encrypted voice data to the block of voice data.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the first hash of voice features and the second hash of voice features are each results of a fuzzy hashing algorithm.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein:
the first signature comprises a first plurality of signatures each of the first plurality of signatures associated with one or more of the first voice features and the second signature comprises a second set of signatures each of the second plurality of signatures associated with one or more of the second voice features, and comparing the first signature with the second signature comprises comparing the first plurality of signatures and the second plurality of signatures using a set comparison algorithm.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the block of voice data further comprises a plurality of transactions, wherein each transaction of the plurality of transactions is associated with a statement of voice data and comprises a signature comprising a hash of voice features of the statement of voice data.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise:
comparing the first signature with a second signature comprises comparing each signature of the plurality of transactions with the second signature, and
determining the match comprises determining a match when the comparing each signature of the plurality of transactions with the second signature is above the threshold value.
17. A non-transitory machine-readable medium having instructions stored thereon, the instructions executable to cause performance of operations comprising:
receiving a block of voice data comprising a first signature, the first signature comprising a first hash of first voice features in the block of voice data;
comparing the first signature with a second signature associated with a latest block in a ledger, the second signature comprising a second hash of second voice features associated with the latest block in the ledger;
determining, based on a comparison between the first signature and the second signature, that a similarity between the first signature and the second signature is above a threshold value;
responsive to the determining, validating the block of voice data; and
adding the validated block of voice data to the ledger.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the block of voice data is generated based on one or more statements made by a participant in a conversation, and wherein the operations further comprise:
receiving a second block of voice data, the second block of voice data generated based on one or more statements made by a second participant in the conversation;
verifying the second block of voice data for inclusion on a second ledger; and adding the second block of voice data to the second ledger.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise:
receiving first encrypted voice data associated with the block of voice data associated with the conversation;
receiving second encrypted voice data associated with the second block of voice data associated with the conversation;
receiving an encryption key configured to decrypt the first encrypted voice data and the second encrypted voice data;
sending the encryption key to a first device associated with the participant in the conversation and to a second device associated with the second participant in the
conversation.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the first hash of voice features and the second hash of voice features are each results of a fuzzy hashing algorithm.
</claims>
</document>
