<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/65,G01N21/84
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMGEN
</assignee>

<inventors>
TULSYAN, ADITYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70331744
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATIC CALIBRATION AND AUTOMATIC MAINTENANCE OF RAMAN SPECTROSCOPIC MODELS FOR REAL-TIME PREDICTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for monitoring and/or controlling a biopharmaceutical process includes determining a query point associated with scanning of the process by a spectroscopy system (e.g., a Raman spectroscopy system), and querying an observation database containing observation data sets associated with past observations of biopharmaceutical processes. Each of the observation data sets includes spectral data and a corresponding actual analytical measurement. Querying the observation database includes selecting as training data, from among the observation data sets, those data sets that satisfy one or more relevancy criteria with respect to the query point. The method also includes using the selected training data to calibrate a local model specific to the biopharmaceutical process. The local model (e.g., a Gaussian process model) is trained to predict analytical measurements based on spectral data inputs. The method also includes using the local model to predict an analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for monitoring and/or controlling a biopharmaceutical process, the method comprising:
determining, by one or more processors, a query point associated with scanning of the biopharmaceutical process by a spectroscopy system;
querying, by the one or more processors, an observation database containing a plurality of observation data sets associated with past observations of biopharmaceutical processes, wherein each of the observation data sets includes spectral data and a corresponding actual analytical measurement, and wherein querying the observation database includes selecting as training data, from among the plurality of observation data sets, observation data sets that satisfy one or more relevancy criteria with respect to the query point;
calibrating, by the one or more processors and using the selected training data, a local model specific to the biopharmaceutical process, the local model being trained to predict analytical measurements based on spectral data inputs; and predicting, by the one or more processors, an analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process, wherein predicting the analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process includes using the local model to analyze spectral data that the spectroscopy system generated when scanning the biopharmaceutical process.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 , wherein the spectroscopy system is a Raman spectroscopy system.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 or 2, wherein:
determining a query point includes determining the query point based at least in part on a spectral scan vector, the spectral scan vector being generated by the spectroscopy system when scanning the biopharmaceutical process; and
selecting as training data the observation data sets that satisfy one or more relevancy criteria with respect to the query point includes comparing the spectral scan vector on which determination of the query point was based to spectral scan vectors associated with the past observations of the biopharmaceutical processes.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein:
determining a query point further includes determining the query point based on a sample number associated with the spectral scan vector; and
selecting as training data the observation data sets that satisfy one or more relevancy criteria with respect to the query point includes (i) comparing the spectral scan vector on which determination of the query point was based to spectral scan vectors associated with the past observations of the biopharmaceutical processes, and (ii) comparing the sample number associated with the query point to sample numbers associated with the past observations of the biopharmaceutical processes.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein selecting as training data the observation data sets that satisfy one or more relevancy criteria with respect to the query point includes:
selecting the most recent k observation data sets for inclusion in the training data.
6. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 3 through 5, wherein predicting the analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process includes:
using the local model to analyze the spectral scan vector on which determination of the query point was based.
7. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 3 through 6, wherein selecting as training data the observation data sets that satisfy one or more relevancy criteria with respect to the query point includes:
calculating distances between (i) the spectral scan vector on which determination of the query point was based and (ii) the spectral scan vectors associated with the past observations of the biopharmaceutical processes; and
selecting as the training data any of the spectral scan vectors associated with the past observations that are within a threshold distance of the spectral scan vector on which determination of the query point was based.
8. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 1 through 7, wherein determining a query point includes:
determining the query point based at least in part on one or both of (i) a media profile associated with the biopharmaceutical process, and (ii) one or more operating conditions under which the biopharmaceutical process is analyzed.
9. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 1 through 8, wherein calibrating a local model specific to the biopharmaceutical process includes:
calibrating a Gaussian process machine-learning model specific to the biopharmaceutical process.
10. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 1 through 9, wherein calibrating a local model specific to the biopharmaceutical process includes:
calibrating a model that is a function of both spectral data and sample number of a given observation data set.
11. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 1 through 10, wherein predicting an analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process includes:
using the local model to determine a confidence indicator associated with the predicted analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process.
12. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 1 through 11 , further comprising:
controlling, by the one or more processors and based at least in part on the predicted analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process, at least one parameter of the biopharmaceutical process.
13. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 1 through 12, wherein the predicted analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process is a media component concentration, a media state, a viable cell density, a titer, a critical quality attribute, or a cell state.
14. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 1 through 13, wherein the predicted analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process is a concentration of glucose, lactate, glutamate, glutamine, ammonia, amino acids, Na+, or K+.
15. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 1 through 13, wherein the predicted analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process is pH, pCC>2, pC>2, temperature, or osmolality.
16. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 1 through 15, further comprising: obtaining, by an analytical instrument, an actual analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process; and causing, by the one or more processors, (i) spectral data that the spectroscopy system generated when the actual analytical measurement was obtained, and (ii) the actual analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process, to be added to the observation database.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, further comprising:
determining, by the one or more processors, that at least the predicted analytical measurement does not satisfy one or more model performance criteria,
wherein obtaining the actual analytical measurement is performed in response to determining that at least the predicted analytical measurement does not satisfy the one or more model performance criteria.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein determining that at least the predicted analytical measurement does not satisfy the one or more model performance criteria includes:
generating a credibility interval associated with the predicted analytical measurement; and
comparing the credibility interval to a pre-defined threshold.
19. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 1 through 18, wherein the biopharmaceutical process is a cell culture process.
20. A spectroscopy system for monitoring and/or controlling a biopharmaceutical process, the spectroscopy system comprising:
one or more spectroscopy probes collectively configured to (i) deliver source electromagnetic radiation to the biopharmaceutical process and (ii) collect electromagnetic radiation while the source electromagnetic radiation is delivered to the biopharmaceutical process;
one or more memories collectively storing an observation database containing a plurality of observation data sets associated with past observations of biopharmaceutical processes, wherein each of the observation data sets includes spectral data and a corresponding actual analytical measurement; and
one or more processors configured to
determine a query point associated with scanning of the biopharmaceutical process by the spectroscopy system,
query the observation database, at least by selecting as training data, from among the plurality of observation data sets, observation data sets that satisfy one or more relevancy criteria with respect to the query point,
calibrate, using the selected training data, a local model specific to the biopharmaceutical process, the local model being trained to predict analytical measurements based on spectral data inputs, and
predict an analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process, at least by using the local model to analyze spectral data that the spectroscopy system generated when scanning the biopharmaceutical process with the one or more spectroscopy probes.
21 The spectroscopy system of claim 20, wherein the spectroscopy system is a Raman spectroscopy system.
22 The spectroscopy system of claim 20 or 21 , wherein the one or more processors are configured to: determine the query point based at least in part on a spectral scan vector, the spectral scan vector being generated by the spectroscopy system when scanning the biopharmaceutical process; and
select the training data at least by comparing the spectral scan vector on which determination of the query point was based to spectral scan vectors associated with the past observations of the biopharmaceutical processes.
23. The spectroscopy system of claim 22, wherein the one or more processors are configured to:
determine the query point based in part on a sample number associated with the spectral scan vector; and select as training data the observation data sets that satisfy one or more relevancy criteria with respect to the query point in part by (i) comparing the spectral scan vector on which determination of the query point was based to spectral scan vectors associated with the past observations of the biopharmaceutical processes, and (ii) comparing the sample number associated with the query point to sample numbers associated with the past observations of the biopharmaceutical processes.
24. The spectroscopy system of claim 23, wherein the one or more processors are configured to select as training data the observation data sets that satisfy one or more relevancy criteria with respect to the query point in part by: selecting the most recent k observation data sets for inclusion in the training data.
25. The spectroscopy system of any one of claims 20 through 24, wherein the local model is a Gaussian process machine-learning model.
26. The spectroscopy system of any one of claims 20 through 25, wherein the local model is a function of both spectral data and sample number of a given observation data set.
27. The spectroscopy system of any one of claims 20 through 26, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
use the local model to determine a confidence indicator associated with the predicted analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process.
28. The spectroscopy system of any one of claims 20 through 27, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
control, based at least in part on the predicted analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process, at least one parameter of the biopharmaceutical process.
29. The spectroscopy system of any one of claims 20 through 28, wherein the predicted analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process is a media component concentration, a media state, a viable cell density, a titer, a critical quality attribute, or a cell state.
30. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 20 through 29, wherein the predicted analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process is a concentration of glucose, lactate, glutamate, glutamine, ammonia, amino acids, Na+, or K+.
31. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 20 through 29, wherein the predicted analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process is pH, pCC>2, pC>2, temperature, or osmolality.
32. The spectroscopy system of any one of claims 20 through 31 , further comprising:
an analytical instrument configured to obtain an actual analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to cause (i) spectral data that the spectroscopy system generated when the actual analytical measurement was obtained, and (ii) the actual analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process, to be added to the observation database.
33. The spectroscopy system of claim 32, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
determine that at least the predicted analytical measurement does not satisfy one or more model performance criteria; and
obtain the actual analytical measurement from the analytical instrument in response to determining that at least the predicted analytical measurement does not satisfy the one or more model performance criteria.
34. The spectroscopy system of claim 33, wherein the one or more processors are configured to determine that at least the predicted analytical measurement does not satisfy the one or more model performance criteria at least by:
generating a credibility interval associated with the predicted analytical measurement; and
comparing the credibility interval to a pre-defined threshold.
35. The spectroscopy system of any one of claims 20 through 34, wherein the biopharmaceutical process is a cell culture process.
36. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions for monitoring and/or controlling a biopharmaceutical process, wherein the instructions, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform the method of any one of claims 1 through 19.
37. A bioreactor system comprisi ng :
a bioreactor chamber configured for containing a biopharmaceutical process;
one or more spectroscopy probes collectively configured to (i) deliver source electromagnetic radiation to the biopharmaceutical process and (ii) collect electromagnetic radiation while the source electromagnetic radiation is delivered to the biopharmaceutical process;
one or more memories collectively storing an observation database containing a plurality of observation data sets associated with past observations of biopharmaceutical processes, wherein each of the observation data sets includes spectral data and a corresponding actual analytical measurement; and
one or more processors configured to
determine a query point associated with scanning of the biopharmaceutical process by the spectroscopy system,
query the observation database, at least by selecting as training data, from among the plurality of observation data sets, observation data sets that satisfy one or more relevancy criteria with respect to the query point,
calibrate, using the selected training data, a local model specific to the biopharmaceutical process, the local model being trained to predict analytical measurements based on spectral data inputs, and predict an analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process, at least by using the local model to analyze spectral data that the spectroscopy system generated when scanning the biopharmaceutical process with the one or more spectroscopy probes.
38. The bioreactor system of claim 37, wherein the one or more processors are configured to:
determine the query point based at least in part on a spectral scan vector, the spectral scan vector being generated when scanning the biopharmaceutical process via the one or more spectroscopy probes; and
select the training data at least by comparing the spectral scan vector on which determination of the query point was based to spectral scan vectors associated with the past observations of the biopharmaceutical processes.
39. The bioreactor system of claim 38, wherein the one or more processors are configured to:
determine the query point based in part on a sample number associated with the spectral scan vector; and select as training data the observation data sets that satisfy one or more relevancy criteria with respect to the query point in part by (i) comparing the spectral scan vector on which determination of the query point was based to spectral scan vectors associated with the past observations of the biopharmaceutical processes, and (ii) comparing the sample number associated with the query point to sample numbers associated with the past observations of the biopharmaceutical processes.
40. The bioreactor system of claim 39, wherein the one or more processors are configured to select as training data the observation data sets that satisfy one or more relevancy criteria with respect to the query point in part by:
selecting the most recent k observation data sets for inclusion in the training data.
41. The bioreactor system of any one of claims 37 through 40, wherein the local model is a Gaussian process machine-learning model.
42. The bioreactor system of any one of claims 37 through 41 , wherein the local model is a function of both spectral data and sample number of a given observation data set.
43. The bioreactor system of any one of claims 37 through 42, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
use the local model to determine a confidence indicator associated with the predicted analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process.
44. The bioreactor system of any one of claims 37 through 43, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
control, based at least in part on the predicted analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process, at least one parameter of the biopharmaceutical process.
45. The bioreactor system of any one of claims 37 through 44, wherein the predicted analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process is a media component concentration, a media state, a viable cell density, a titer, a critical quality attribute, or a cell state.
46. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 37 through 45, wherein the predicted analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process is a concentration of glucose, lactate, glutamate, glutamine, ammonia, amino acids, Na+, or K+.
47. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 37 through 45, wherein the predicted analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process is pH, pCC>2, pC>2, temperature, or osmolality.
48. The spectroscopy system of any one of claims 37 through 47, further comprising:
an analytical instrument configured to obtain an actual analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to cause (i) spectral data that the spectroscopy system generated when the actual analytical measurement was obtained, and (ii) the actual analytical measurement of the biopharmaceutical process, to be added to the observation database.
49. The spectroscopy system of claim 48, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
determine that at least the predicted analytical measurement does not satisfy one or more model performance criteria; and
obtain the actual analytical measurement from the analytical instrument in response to determining that at least the predicted analytical measurement does not satisfy the one or more model performance criteria.
50. The spectroscopy system of claim 49, wherein the one or more processors are configured to determine that at least the predicted analytical measurement does not satisfy the one or more model performance criteria at least by:
generating a credibility interval associated with the predicted analytical measurement; and
comparing the credibility interval to a pre-defined threshold.
51. The spectroscopy system of any one of claims 37 through 50, wherein the biopharmaceutical process is a cell culture process.
52. A recombinant protein produced in the cell culture process performed in the bioreactor system of claim 51.
</claims>
</document>
