<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/08,A61M16/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RESMED
</assignee>

<inventors>
MARTIN, DION CHARLES CHEWE
DICKENS, PAUL ANDREW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72752164
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR MONITORING RESPIRATORY THERAPY
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus, such as a respiratory therapy device 4000, may generate a signal representing an estimate of a patient breathing pattern when using a flow therapy device with an unsealed patient interface. The device may include a blower and may generate a flow of air at a controlled flow rate. The apparatus may include a controller. The generation may involve computing an estimate of the breathing pattern as a function of a device flow rate signal; a device pressure signal; a device conductance; a patient conductance; and a coupling parameter that characterizes a degree of coupling between the interface and the patient's nares. An estimate of an exit pressure representative of a pressure of a flow of air generated by the therapy device just outside an orifice of the unsealed interface may also be computed. An estimate of a flushing flow rate from the estimated exit pressure may also be computed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method in a controller for computing an estimate of a breathing pattern of a patient, the method comprising: accessing a device flow rate signal representative of a flow rate of a flow of air generated by a respiratory therapy device configured for providing a flow therapy via an unsealed patient interface; accessing a device pressure signal representative of a pressure of the flow of air generated by the respiratory therapy device; computing an estimate of an exit pressure representative of a pressure of the flow of air just outside an orifice of the unsealed patient interface with a first function of (a) the device pressure signal, (b) the device flow rate signal, and (c) a device conductance; computing an estimate of a flushing flow rate from the estimated exit pressure with a second function of (a) a patient conductance, and (b) a coupling parameter that characterizes a degree of coupling between the patient interface and the patient's nares; and computing the estimate of the breathing pattern of the patient with a third function of (a) the flushing flow rate, and (b) the device flow rate signal.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the patient conductance is an ideal patient conductance.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the second function for estimating the flushing flow rate comprises a ratio of the ideal patient conductance and the coupling parameter.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising determining the ideal patient conductance in a calibration process.
5. The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the first function for estimating the exit pressure comprises a value of a density of the flow of air being generated by the respiratory therapy device.
6. The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the second function for estimating the flushing flow rate comprises a value of a density of the flow of air being generated by the respiratory therapy device.
7. The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the second function for estimating the flushing flow rate comprises scaling the patient conductance by a fluid dynamics asymmetry coefficient if the estimate of the exit pressure is positive.
8. The method of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the second function for estimating the flushing flow rate comprises scaling, with a scaling factor, the flushing flow rate if the exit pressure is positive, wherein the scaling factor is dependent on the device flow rate signal.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the scaling factor further depends on a fluid dynamics uncoupling coefficient that scales the device flow rate.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the fluid dynamics uncoupling coefficient is proportional to the coupling parameter.
11. The method of any one of claims 1 to 10, further comprising computing an estimate of the coupling parameter based on the estimated breathing pattern of the patient.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein computing the estimate of the coupling parameter comprises applying a proportional-integral controller.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the proportional -integral controller applies a correction to the coupling parameter that is computed from a lowpass filtered version of a signal representing the estimated breathing pattern.
14. The method of any one of claims 11 to 13, further comprising generating an output comprising the estimated coupling parameter as a continuously-valued indicator of the usage of the flow therapy by the patient.
15. The method of any one of claims 1 to 14 further comprising: generating, with a flow rate sensor coupled to the controller, the device flow rate signal; and generating, with a pressure sensor coupled to the controller, the device pressure signal.
16. The method of any one of claims 1 to 15 further comprising controlling, by the controller, an operation of the respiratory therapy device based on the computed estimate of a flushing flow rate.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein the operation comprises an adjustment to a treatment flow rate for controlling generation of the flow of air.
18. The method of any one of claims 1 to 15 further comprising controlling, by the controller, an operation of the respiratory therapy device based on the computed estimate of the breathing pattern of the patient.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein the operation comprises an adjustment to a treatment flow rate for controlling generation of the flow of air.
20. The method of any one of claims 1 to 19 further comprising detecting, by the controller, a respiratory event based on an assessment of the computed estimate of the breathing pattern.
21. A processor-readable medium, having stored thereon processor-executable instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to compute an estimate of a breathing pattern of a patient, the processorexecutable instructions configured to execute the method of any one of claims 1 to 20.
22. A respiratory therapy system comprising: a respiratory therapy device comprising a blower configured to generate a flow of air at a controlled flow rate via an unsealed patient interface; a sensor configured to generate a device flow rate signal representative of a flow rate of the flow of air generated by the respiratory therapy device; a sensor configured to generate a device pressure signal representative of a pressure of the flow of air generated by the respiratory therapy device; a memory; and one or more processors configured to: compute an estimate of an exit pressure representative of a pressure of the flow of air just outside an orifice of the unsealed patient interface as a function of (a) the device pressure signal, (b) the device flow rate signal, and (c) a device conductance, compute an estimate of a flushing flow rate as a function of (a) the estimated exit pressure, (b) a patient conductance, and (c) a coupling parameter that characterizes a degree of coupling between the patient interface and the patient's nares, and compute an estimate of a breathing pattern of the patient as a function of (a) the flushing flow rate, and (b) the device flow rate signal.
23. The respiratory therapy system of claim 22, wherein the one or more processors includes a processor of a controller of the respiratory therapy device.
24. The respiratory therapy system of claim 22, wherein the one or more processors includes a processor of an external computing device with which the respiratory therapy device is in communication.
25. A method for generating a signal representing an estimate of a breathing pattern of a patient using a flow therapy device with an unsealed patient interface, the method comprising: computing an estimate of the breathing pattern of the patient as a function of (a) a device flow rate signal; (b) a device pressure signal; (c) a device conductance; (d) a patient conductance; and (e) a coupling parameter that characterizes a degree of coupling between the patient interface and the patient's nares.
26. The method of claim 25 wherein the computing comprises computing an estimate of an exit pressure representative of a pressure of a flow of air generated by the flow therapy device just outside an orifice of the unsealed patient interface.
27. The method of claim 26 wherein the computing comprises computing an estimate of a flushing flow rate from the estimated exit pressure.
28. A processor-readable medium, having stored thereon processor-executable instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to compute an estimate of a breathing pattern of a patient, the processorexecutable instructions configured to execute the method of any one of claims 25 to 27.
29. A respiratory therapy system comprising: a respiratory therapy device comprising a blower configured to generate a flow of air at a controlled flow rate via an unsealed patient interface; a sensor configured to generate a device flow rate signal representative of a flow rate of the flow of air generated by the respiratory therapy device; a sensor configured to generate a device pressure signal representative of a pressure of the flow of air generated by the respiratory therapy device; and a controller configured to generate a breathing pattern signal representing an estimate of a breathing pattern of a patient receiving a flow therapy from the respiratory therapy device, wherein the controller configured to generate the breathing pattern signal as a function of (a) the device flow rate signal; (b) the device pressure signal; (c) a device conductance; (d) a patient conductance; and (e) a coupling parameter that characterizes a degree of coupling between the unsealed patient interface and the patient's nares.
30. The respiratory therapy system of claim 29 wherein to generate the breathing pattern signal, the controller is configured to compute an estimate of an exit pressure representative of a pressure of the flow of air just outside an orifice of the unsealed patient interface.
31. The respiratory therapy system of claim 30 wherein to generate the breathing pattern signal, the controller is configured to compute an estimate of a flushing flow rate from the estimated exit pressure.
</claims>
</document>
