<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RUTGERS STATE UNIVERSITY NEW JERSEY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DANA, Kristin
WENGROWSKI, Eric
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73781294
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LIGHT-FIELD MESSAGING
</title>

<abstract>
A method of light messaging, in which a hidden message is transmitted via coded image emitted from a display device and retrieved using a camera, comprises training a camera-display transfer model that receives images with hidden messages from an embedding model and generates modified coded images based on training data that accounts for properties of displays and cameras, the modified coded images delivered to a recovery model that decodes the hidden messages and outputs hidden message determinations, training both the embedding and recovery models using the CDTF model and training data to minimize differences between the input hidden messages and the hidden message determinations. After training the CDTF model and other models, embedding a hidden message in a carrier image using the embedding model, displaying the coded image using the display device, receiving the coded image at the camera, and retrieving the hidden message using the recovery model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of light messaging in which a hidden message is transmitted in a coded image emitted from a display device and retrieved from the coded image using a camera, comprising:
training a camera-display transfer model that receives images coded with hidden messages from an embedding model and generates modified coded images that simulate camera-display distortion based upon training image data, the modified coded images being delivered to a recovery model that is configured to decode the hidden messages from the modified coded images and to output hidden message determinations;
training both the embedding and the recovery models using the prior-trained CDTF model and the training image data to minimize a difference between the input hidden messages and the hidden message determinations;
after training the CDTF model, embedding and recovery models:
embedding a further hidden message in a carrier image using the trained embedding model, transforming the carrier image into a coded image;
displaying the coded image using the display device;
receiving the coded image at the camera; and
retrieving the further hidden message embedded in the coded image using the trained recovery model.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the CDTF model is implemented using a machine learning technique.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the neural network implementing the CDTF model includes a neural network system having at least one convolutional neural network.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the CDTF model is trained using a loss function that includes a perceptual metric.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the training image data includes photographs taken by a plurality of cameras.
6. The method of claim 1 , wherein the training image data includes images displayed on a plurality of display devices.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the embedding model includes a first processing path for the message and a second processing path for carrier images into which the hidden messages are embedded.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein features of the carrier images and messages are shared by the first and second processing paths.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the carrier image in which the coded image is displayed and captured using different display and camera devices than those from which the training image data is obtained.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the coded images are encoded spatially by the embedding model such that time-based synchronization is not required to decode the code images using the recovery model.
11. A method of light messaging using a camera-display distortion model, including an embedding model configured to embed a hidden message into a carrier image and transform the carrier image into a coded image, a camera-display transfer model configured to receive the coded image from the embedding model and to generate a modified coded image that simulates camera-display distortion, and a recovery model configured to retrieve the hidden message from the modified coded image, the method comprising:
receiving an image emitted by a display device in which a message has been embedded using the embedding model trained with the CDTF model;
processing the received image through the recovery model trained with the CDTF model; and
determining the hidden message.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the embedding model, camera-display transfer model and recovery model are trained, using training image data, to minimize a difference between the hidden message embedded in the carrier image by the embedding model, and the message retrieved subject to the camera-display distortion simulated by the CDTF model.
13. A method of light messaging using a camera-distortion model including an embedding model configured to embed a hidden message into a carrier image and transform the carrier image into a coded image, a camera-display transfer model configured to receive the coded image from the embedding model and to generate modified coded images that simulate camera-display distortion based upon training image data, and a recovery model configured to retrieve the hidden message from the modified coded image, the method comprising:
embedding a further hidden message in a carrier image using the embedding model trained with the CDTF model, transforming the carrier image into a coded image; and
displaying the coded image using a display device.
14. A method of light messaging in which a hidden message is transmitted in a coded image emitted from a display device and retrieved from the coded image using a camera, comprising: training a camera-display transfer function model configured to receive the coded image from an embedding model and to generate modified coded images that simulate camera-display distortion based upon training image data, the modified coded images being delivered to a recovery model that is configured to decode the hidden messages from the modified coded images and to output hidden message determinations; and
training both the embedding model and the recovery model using the prior-trained CDTF model and the training image data to minimize a difference between the input hidden messages and the hidden message determinations.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the CDTF model is implemented using a machine learning technique.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the neural network implementing the CDTF model includes a neural network system having at least one convolutional neural network.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the CDTF model is trained using a loss function that includes a perceptual metric. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein the coded images are encoded spatially by the embedding model such that time-based synchronization is not required to decode the code images using the recovery model.
19. A method of enabling light messaging in which a hidden message is transmitted in a coded image emitted from a display device and retrieved from the coded image using a camera, comprising:
obtaining training image data including images displayed by a plurality of display devices and captured by a plurality of camera devices; and
training a camera-display transfer model configured to simulate camera-display distortion based upon the obtained training image data.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising determining an inverse of the trained cameradisplay transfer function.
</claims>
</document>
