<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,H04B1/00,H04L29/08,H04R27/00,H04S7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DENTON LEVAUGHN
</assignee>

<inventors>
DENTON LEVAUGHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72603592
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-FREQUENCY SENSING METHOD AND APPARATUS USING MOBILE-BASED CLUSTERS
</title>

<abstract>
The systems and methods described relate to the concept that smart devices can be used to 1) sense various types of phenomena like sound, blue light exposure, RF and microwave radiation, and 2) in real-time analyze, report and/or control outputs (e.g., displays or speakers). The systems are configurable and use standard computing devices, such as wearable electronics, tablet computers, and mobile phones to measure various frequency bands across multiple points, allowing a single user to visualize and/or adjust environmental conditions.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A system comprising:
an audio control source;
at least one cluster of at least one computing device,
the at least one computing device including:
a sound sensing mechanism, configured to sense a noise; and
a wireless transceiver, configured to wirelessly transmit and receive data from the audio control source;
at least one output device, including:
a power source for operating the output device;
a speaker for outputting sound; and
a communication mechanism, for receiving electronic information from the audio control source; and
the audio control source, in electronic communication the at least one cluster and the at least one output device, the audio control source including:
a memory, containing computer-executable instructions for connecting to the at least one cluster, and varying an output of the at least one output device, providing an interface; and
a processor, for executing the computer-executable instructions, wherein the computer-executable instructions include:
identifying one or more sounds within the noise;
isolating the one or more sounds; determining is one or more of the one or more sounds includes a frequency outside of a predetermined threshold;
if one or more of the one or more sounds includes the frequency outside of the predetermined threshold, altering the one or more of the one or more sounds so that the frequency does not fall outside of the predetermined threshold; and
outputting the one or more sounds on the at least one output device. 2. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising:
an interfacing mechanism, the interfacing mechanism including:
a network adapter, configured to transmit and receive electronic information through both wired and wireless communication; and
at least one input mechanism, configured to:
manipulate the interfacing mechanism; and
vary the output of the at least one output device.
3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the sound-sensing mechanism is an
omnidirectional transducer.
4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the sound-sensing mechanism is selected from the group consisting of: an ultrasonic transducer; an infrasonic transducer: and a microwave transducer.
5. The system as recited in claim 4, wherein the sensed noise includes infrasonic or ultrasonic soundwaves.
6. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the predetermined threshold equates to a frequency determined to pose a risk of harm to a user's hearing capabilities.
7. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the computer-executable instructions further include:
if one or more of the one or more sounds includes the frequency outside of the predetermined threshold, notifying a user, via a notification, that one or more of the one or more sounds includes the frequency outside of the predetermined threshold.
8. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the computer-executable instructions further include steps selected from the group consisting of: panning the sensed noise; and equalizing the sensed noise.
9. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising:
an in-ear device, wherein an audio output of the in-ear device auto-adjusts based on signal energy sensed within a cluster or surrounding clusters.
10. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the altering the one or more of the one or more sounds so that the frequency does not fall outside of the predetermined threshold is performed automatically.
11. A method of altering sensed noise prior to outputting the sensed noise, comprising: providing at least one audio control source;
providing at least one cluster of at least one computing device, the at least one computing device including:
a sound sensing mechanism, configured to sense a noise;
a wireless transceiver, configured to wirelessly transmit and receive data from the audio control source;
at least one output device, including:
a power source for operating the output device;
a speaker for outputting sound; and
a communication mechanism, for receiving electronic information from the audio control source; and
the audio control source, in electronic communication the at least one cluster and the at least one output device, the audio control source including:
a memory, containing computer-executable instructions for connecting to the at least one cluster, and varying an output of the at least one output device, providing an interface; and
a processor, for executing the computer-executable instructions;
identifying one or more sounds within the noise;
isolating the one or more sounds;
determining is one or more of the one or more sounds includes a frequency outside of a predetermined threshold; if one or more of the one or more sounds includes the frequency outside of the predetermined threshold, altering the one or more of the one or more sounds so that the frequency does not fall outside of the predetermined threshold; and
outputting the one or more sounds on the at least one output device.
12. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the at least one computing device further includes:
an interfacing mechanism, the interfacing mechanism including:
a network adapter, configured to transmit and receive electronic information through both wired and wireless communication; and
at least one input mechanism, configured to:
manipulate the interfacing mechanism; and
vary the output of the at least one output device. 13. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the sound-sensing mechanism is selected from the group consisting of: an omnidirectional transducer; an ultrasonic transducer; an infrasonic transducer; an electro-optical transducer; and a microwave transducer.
14. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein the sensed noise includes infrasonic, ultrasonic, visible, or radio waves.
15. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the predetermined threshold equates to a frequency determined to pose a risk of harm to a user's hearing capabilities.
16. The method as recited in claim 11, further comprising:
if one or more of the one or more sounds includes the frequency outside of the predetermined threshold, notifying a user, via a notification, that one or more of the one or more sounds includes the frequency outside of the predetermined threshold.
17. The method as recited in claim 11, further comprising:
panning the sensed noise.
18. The method as recited in claim 11, further comprising:
adding one or more audio effects to the sensed noise.
19. The method as recited in claim 11, further comprising:
equalizing the sensed noise. 20. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the altering the one or more of the one or more sounds so that the frequency does not fall outside of the predetermined threshold is performed automatically.
</claims>
</document>
