<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-21
</priority_date>

<assignee>
ANDERSEN, JOHN
SAINI, Rajiv
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDERSEN, JOHN
SAINI, Rajiv
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74037469
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR EVALUATING PRODUCT RESEARCH
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for evaluating product research are disclosed herein. A user inputs product information to a website or app, after which a database is searched for documentation related to the product. This documentation is scanned for the answers to questions related to the product. Based on these answers, a unique score is generated that is indicative of the quality of the product research. The score provides consumers and companies a novel critical and dynamic analysis of the quality of research used to market a product, allowing consumers to become empowered to ask questions about a product from their healthcare provider or product supplier.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for assessing quality of research, the method comprising:
receiving data into a computing device;
accessing a database, wherein the database contains documentation associated with the data;
applying an algorithm to the database and thereby mining the database for product descriptors associated with the data;
comparing the data to at least a first standard; and
generating a unique score based on the data, wherein the unique score is outputted to a graphical user interface of the computing device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the database contains journal articles, abstracts, clinical research papers, white papers, case studies, and combinations thereof.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the unique score comprises a clinical research quality index analysis (CRQIA) score ranging from 1-30, a research quality score, and a rating from 0-5.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the product descriptors are one of: study type, study center, principal author affiliation, number of subjects enrolled, positive control, negative control, study duration, number of investigators, number of centers involved, and study protocol.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the algorithm comprises:
comparing the database to the first standard and a second standard; and
applying a plurality of questions to the database, the first standard, and the second standard.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising a server connecting to a website accessing the database and a mobile application on the computer device.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the database incorporates publications, updating the unique score.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein a user and a company upload contents to the website and the mobile application, updating the unique score.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the unique score is sent to the user and the company in real-time.
10. The method of claim 6, wherein the unique score is sent to the user and the company on delay.
11. The method of claim 3, wherein the CRQIA, research quality score, and rating are depicted pictorially.
12. A system for assessing quality of research, the system comprising:
a server;
a computing device in communication with the server over a network, the computing device including a processor and a memory, the memory bearing computer executable code configured to perform the steps of:
receiving data into the computing device;
accessing a database, wherein the database contains documentation associated with the data;
applying an algorithm on the database and thereby mining the database for product descriptors associated with the data;
comparing the data to at least a first standard; and
generating a unique score based on the data, wherein the unique score is outputted to a graphical user interface of the computing device.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the database contains journal articles, abstracts, clinical research papers, white papers, case studies, and combinations thereof.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the unique score comprises a clinical research quality index analysis (CRQIA) score ranging from 1-30, a research quality score, and a rating from 0-5.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the product descriptors are at least one of: study type, study center, principal author affiliation, number of subjects enrolled, positive control, negative control, study duration, parameter assessed, number of investigators, number of centers involved, and study protocol.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein applying the algorithm comprises:
comparing the database to the first standard and a second standard; and
applying a plurality of questions on the database, the first standard, and the second standard.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein the server connects a website accessing the database and a mobile application on the computer device.
18. The system of claim 12, wherein the database incorporates publications, updating the unique score.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the website and the mobile application receives contents from a user and a company, thereby updating the unique score.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the unique score is sent to the user and the company in real-time.
21. The system of claim 19, wherein the unique score is sent to the user and the company on delay.
22. The system of claim 13, wherein database derive contents therein from a search engine, scientific literature, patent literature, product websites, company websites, and combinations thereof.
23. A computer program product for assessing quality of research comprising computer executable code embodied in a non-transitory computer readable medium that, when executing on one or more computing devices, performs steps of:
receiving data into the computing device;
accessing a database, wherein the database contains documentation associated with the data;
applying an algorithm on the database and thereby mining the database for product descriptors associated with the data;
comparing the data to at least a first standard; and
generating a unique score based on the data, wherein the unique score is outputted to a graphical user interface of the computing device.
24. The computer program product of claim 23, wherein the database contains journal articles, abstracts, clinical research papers, white papers, case studies, and combinations thereof.
25. The computer program product of claim 23, wherein the unique score comprises a clinical research quality index analysis (CRQIA) ranging from 1-30, a research quality score, and a rating from 0-5.
26. The computer program product of claim 23, wherein the product descriptors are at least one of: study type, study center, principal author affiliation, number of subjects enrolled, positive control, negative control, study duration, parameter assessed, number of
investigators, number of centers involved, and study protocol.
27. The computer program product of claim 23, wherein applying the algorithm comprises:
comparing the database to the first standard and a second standard; and
applying a plurality of questions on the database, the first standard, and the second standard.
28. The computer program product of claim 23, wherein a server connects a website accessing the database and a mobile application on the computer device.
29. The computer program product of claim 23, wherein the database incorporates publications, updating the unique score.
30. The computer program product of claim 28, wherein the website and the mobile application receive contents uploaded from a user and a company, thereby updating the umque score.
31. The computer program product of claim 28, wherein the unique score is sent to the user and the company in real-time.
32. The computer program product of claim 28, wherein the unique score is sent to the user and the company on delay.
33. The computer program product of claim 24, wherein database derive from a search engine, scientific literature, patent literature, product websites, company websites, and combinations thereof.
</claims>
</document>
