<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/0481,G06F3/0484,G06N10/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUPTA, RAJEEV
KESAMREDDY, VENKATA PAVAN KUMAR
YADAV, Reena Dayal
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69743933
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VISUALIZATION TOOL FOR INTERACTING WITH A QUANTUM COMPUTING PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A technique is described herein for assisting a user in exploring the operation of a quantum computer program. It involves first receiving qubit state information from a quantum system emulator which executes a quantum computer program. The qubit state information describes one or more states of one or more respective qubits at a specified analysis point in the quantum computer program. The technique then generates a three-dimensional graphical depiction that provides a visualization of the qubit state information. The three-dimensional graphical depiction includes at least one graphical control element that allows a user to interact with the three-dimensional graphical depiction. The technique then displays the three-dimensional graphical depiction on a display device. In one implementation, the display device is provided by a head mounted display associated with a mixed reality system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. One or more computing devices for facilitating interaction with a quantum computer program, comprising:
hardware logic circuitry, the hardware logic circuitry including: (a) one or more hardware processors that perform operations by executing machine-readable instructions stored in a memory, and/or (b) one or more other hardware logic components that perform operations using a task-specific collection of logic gates, the operations including:
receiving qubit state information from a quantum system emulator,
the quantum system emulator executing a quantum computer program, and
the qubit state information describing one or more states of one or more respective qubits at a specified analysis point in the quantum computer program;
generating a three-dimensional graphical depiction that provides a visualization of the qubit state information, the three-dimensional graphical depiction including at least one graphical control element that allows a user to interact with the three-dimensional graphical depiction; and
displaying the three-dimensional graphical depiction on a display device.
2. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the display device corresponds to a display device of a head mounted display that provides a mixed reality experience.
3. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional graphical depiction provides a three-dimensional representation of a Bloch sphere for a single qubit.
4. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional graphical depiction provides plural three-dimensional representations of plural respective Bloch spheres, associated with plural respective qubits that are not entangled.
5. The one or more computing devices of claim 1,
wherein the three-dimensional graphical depiction provides a three-dimensional representation of a bar chart that includes a central axis and plural bar portions which protrude from the central axis,
wherein the bar portions are associated with respective basis vectors of an n-qubit state,
wherein each basis vector of the n-qubit state is associated with a probability amplitude,
wherein each bar portion has a length that is based on an absolute value of a probability amplitude associated with the bar portion, and
wherein each bar portion has a direction that is based on a phase value of the probability amplitude associated with the bar portion.
6. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise:
receiving input information from one or more input devices that captures interaction by the user with said at least one graphical control element associated with the three-dimensional graphical depiction;
determining, based on the input information, an input command that a user has made that specifies a modification to be applied to a state of at least one qubit; and
sending a modification request to the quantum system emulator, the modification request instructing the quantum system emulator to carry out the modification to the state of said at least one qubit.
7. The one or more computing devices of claim 6,
wherein the three-dimensional graphical depiction provides a three-dimensional representation of a Bloch sphere,
wherein said at least one graphical control element includes a graphical control element that is associated with the Bloch sphere, which allows interaction by the user with the Bloch sphere,
wherein the qubit state corresponds to a point on a surface of the Bloch sphere, wherein the point on the surface of the Bloch sphere has a position determined by: a first angle with respect to a first axis of the three-dimensional graphical depiction; and a second angle with respect to a second axis of the three-dimensional graphical representation, and
wherein the input command specifies a request by the user to interact with the graphical control element to change the first angle and/or the second angle.
8. The one or more computing devices of claim 6,
wherein said at least one graphical control element includes one or more graphical control buttons associated with respective one or more quantum gates, and
wherein the input command specifies a request by the user to activate one of said one or more graphical control buttons.
9. A method, implemented by one or more computing devices, for facilitating interaction with a quantum computer program, comprising:
receiving qubit state information from a quantum system emulator,
the quantum system emulator executing a quantum computer program, and
the qubit state information describing one or more states of one or more respective qubits at a specified analysis point in the quantum computer program;
generating a three-dimensional graphical depiction that provides a visualization of the qubit state information;
displaying the three-dimensional graphical depiction on a display device;
receiving input information from one or more input devices that captures interaction by the user with at least one graphical control element associated with the three-dimensional graphical depiction;
determining, based on the input information, an input command that a user has made that specifies a modification to be applied to a state of at least one qubit; and
sending a modification request to the quantum system emulator, the modification request instructing the quantum system emulator to carry out the modification to the state of said at least one qubit.
10. A computer-readable storage medium for storing computer-readable instructions, the computer-readable instructions, when executed by one or more hardware processors, performing a method that comprises:
receiving qubit state information from a quantum system emulator,
the quantum system emulator executing a quantum computer program, and
the qubit state information describing one or more states of one or more respective qubits at a specified analysis point in the quantum computer program;
generating a three-dimensional graphical depiction that provides a visualization of the qubit state information; and
displaying the three-dimensional graphical depiction on a display device, the three-dimensional graphical depiction corresponding to a depiction selected from among:
a first display presentation that includes one or more threedimensional representations of one or more respective Bloch spheres, associated with one or more respective qubits; and
a second display presentation that includes a three-dimensional representation of a bar chart that conveys information regarding probability amplitudes associated with an n-qubit state,
the method providing the first display presentation and/or the second display presentation for a case in which a set of qubits under consideration are not entangled, and providing the second display presentation for the case in which the set of qubits under consideration are entangled.
11. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein said receiving comprises receiving the qubit state information from the quantum system emulator via an information transfer system.
12. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the display device corresponds to a two-dimensional display monitor.
13. The one or more computing devices of claim 5, wherein said generating comprises presenting the three-dimensional representation of the bar chart for two or more qubits when it is determined that said two or more qubits are entangled.
14. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein said at least one graphical control element includes one or more graphical control buttons associated with respective one or more quantum gates.
15. The one or more computing devices of claim 6, wherein said one or more input devices are associated with a head mounted display, and include:
a gaze-tracking system; and/or
one or more video cameras; and/or
one or more depth camera systems; and/or
one or more microphones in conjunction with a voice recognition system; and/or a controller interface system which detects interaction by the user with one or more handheld and/or body-worn controllers.
</claims>
</document>
