<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/10,A61B34/20,A61B5/0478,A61N1/05,A61N1/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALPHA OMEGA NEURO TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BERGMAN, HAGAI
AUKAL, SALAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74061794
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BRAIN NAVIGATION LEAD POSITIONING AND METHODS THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
A method for determining position of an electrode lead inside a body tissue, including: receiving electrical signals recorded from at least one macro electrode contact of an electrode lead positioned inside a body tissue; extracting spiking (SPK) signals from the received electrical signals; providing stored measurements or indications thereof; determining a position of the lead and/or the at least one macro electrode contact inside said body tissue based on the extracted SPK signals and the provided stored measurements or indications thereof.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining position of an electrode lead inside a body tissue, comprising: receiving electrical signals recorded from at least one macro electrode contact of an electrode lead positioned inside a body tissue;
extracting spiking (SPK) signals from said received electrical signals;
providing stored measurements or indications thereof;
determining a position of said lead and/or said at least one macro electrode contact inside said body tissue based on said extracted SPK signals and said provided stored measurements or indications thereof.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said provided stored measurements or indications thereof are measured by at least one microelectrode inside said body tissue.
3. A method according to claim 1, wherein said determined position is a position relative to at least one of, a position inside said body tissue, a position along an insertion trajectory of said electrode lead inside the body tissue, a position of an entry point of said lead into a skull, and a position of an entry point of said lead into a brain.
4. A method according to claim 1, wherein said stored measurements or indications thereof comprise SPK measurements or indications thereof.
5. A method according to claim 1, wherein said stored measurements or indications thereof comprise LFP measurements or indications thereof.
6. A method according to claim 1, comprising:
determining a correlation between said extracted spiking signals and said stored measurements or indications thereof, and wherein said determining said position comprises determining said position based on said determined correlation.
7. A method according to claim 1, wherein said extracting comprises extracting local field potential (LFP) signals from said received electrical signals.
8. A method according to claim 7, wherein said extracting comprises filtering said received electrical signals to get LFP signals in a frequency range of 0.1Hz-300Hz.
9. A method according to claim 7, wherein said determining comprises determining a relative position of said lead and/or said at least one macro electrode contact inside said body based on said extracted spiking signals and/or said extracted LFP signals.
10. A method according to claim 9, comprising:
determining a correlation between said extracted spiking signals and/or said extracted LFP signals and said stored measurements or indications thereof, and wherein said determining said relative position comprises determining said relative position based on said determined correlation.
11. A method according to claim 10, wherein said determining a relative position comprises determining a relative position based on a determined correlation with the highest correlation value.
12. A method according to claim 1, comprising recording said electrical signals in a sampling rate in a range of 15KHz-50KHz.
13. A method according to claim 1, wherein said received electrical signals are in a frequency range of 0.5 Hz- 6000Hz.
14. A method according to claim 1, wherein said extracting comprises filtering said received electrical signals to obtain said SPK signals in a range of 300Hz-6000Hz.
15. A method according to claim 14, wherein said extracting comprises reconstructing a waveform from said obtained said SPK signals.
16. A method according to claim 15, wherein said reconstructing comprises applying a full wave rectification algorithm on said SPK signals.
17. A method according to claim 14, comprising:
measuring at least one parameter of said extracted spiking signals, and wherein said determining a position comprises determining a relative position of said electrode lead and/or said at least one macro electrode contact inside said body tissue based on said measured at least one parameter and said provided stored measurements or indications thereof.
18. A method according to claim 17, wherein said at least one parameter of said extracted spiking signals comprises power spectrum density (PSD) or normalized PSD.
19. A method according to claim 17, wherein said at least one parameter of said extracted SPK comprises at least one of Amplitude, Power, Frequency, Spike detection, Audio, Area under a curve, root mean square (RMS) and firing rate.
20. A method according to claim 1, wherein said receiving comprises receiving said electrical signals from an electrode lead advancing through said body tissue towards a desired anatomical target.
21. A method according to claim 16, comprising:
delivering a human detectable indication according to a relation between said determined relative position and a desired anatomical target.
22. A method according to claim 21, wherein said delivering comprises delivering instructions regarding at least one of advancement speed of said electrode lead, advancement step size of said electrode lead, advancement direction of said electrode lead, according to said relation.
23. A method according to claim 21, wherein said delivering comprises delivering instructions to stop the advancement of said electrode lead if sard relation indicates that said relative position is at a distance smaller than 0.5mm from said desired anatomical target.
24. A method according to claim 1, wherein said body tissue comprises the brain, and wherein said lead comprises a DBS lead configured to deliver an electric stimulation to brain tissue.
25. A method for determining a position of a deep brain stimulation (DBS) lead inside the brain, comprising:
receiving electrical signals recorded from at least one macro electrode contact of a deep brain stimulation (DBS) lead positioned inside a brain;
processing said electrical signals; providing stored measurements or indications thereof;
performing two or more correlations between said processed electrical signals and said stored measurements or indications thereof;
calculating a correlation value for each of said two or more correlations;
determining a position of said DBS lead and/or said at least one macro electrode contact inside said body tissue based on a correlation with the highest correlation value.
26. A method according to claim 25, wherein said stored measurements or indications thereof comprise at least one of SPK measurements and/or LFP measurements.
27. A method according to claim 25, wherein said stored measurements or indications thereof are measurements of electrical signals recorded by at least one microelectrode.
28. A method according to claim 27, wherein said stored measurements or indications thereof are measurements of electrical signals recorded by at least one micro contact and/or at least one macro contact of said microelectrode.
29. A method according to claim 25, wherein said determining comprises determining a position of said lead if said highest correlation value is larger than 0.8.
30. A method according to claim 25, comprising:
delivering a human detectable indication with recommendations to modify at least one parameter of an advancement of said DBS lead according to said determined position.
31. A method according to claim 30, wherein said at least one advancement parameter of said DBS lead comprises at least one of, advancement speed, advancement direction, and advancement step size.
32. A method according to claim 25, wherein said determined position is a position relative to at least one of a position inside said brain, a position along an insertion trajectory of said macro electrode contact inside the body tissue, a position of an entry point of said lead into a skull, and a position of an entry point of said lead into a brain.
33. A system for determining a position of a lead inside a subject body, comprising:
an implantable lead insertable via an insertion trajectory through body tissue, comprising at least one macro electrode contact configured to record electrical signals from tissue surrounding said implantable lead;
a control unit connectable to said implantable lead, comprising:
a memory, wherein said memory stores one or more indications including a relation between a position in said body tissue and electrical measurements or indications thereof;
a control circuitry connected to said at least one macro electrode, wherein said control circuitry is configures to:
receive electrical signals recorded by said at least one macro-electrode contact;
extract SPK signals from said received electrical signals;
measure values of at least one SPK parameter from said extracted SPK signals;
determine a position of said implantable lead and/or said macro electrode contact in said body using said measured at least one SPK parameter and said stored indications.
34. A system according to claim 33, wherein said control circuitry is configured to calculate a relation value between said measured SPK signals and one or more indications stored in said memory, and to determine a position of said implantable lead in said body based on said calculated relation value.
35. A system according to claim 33, wherein said control circuitry is configured to filter said received electrical signal with a filter which extracts electrical signals in a frequency range of 250Hz-7000Hz, and to measure values of said at least one SPK parameter from said filtered signals.
36. A system according to claim 35, wherein said control circuitry is configured to reconstruct a waveform from said filtered signals, and to measure said at least one SPK parameter from said reconstructed waveform.
37. A system according to claim 36, wherein said control circuitry is configured to apply a full wave rectification algorithm on said filtered signals to said reconstruct said waveform.
38. A system according to claim 33, wherein said at least one SPK parameter comprises power spectrum density (PSD).
39. A system according to claim 33, wherein said at least one SPK parameter comprises at least one of amplitude, power, frequency, spike detection, Audio, Area under a curve, root mean square (RMS) and firing rate.
40. A system according to claim 33, wherein said control circuitry is configured to:
extract LFP signals from said received electrical signals;
measure values of at least one LFP parameter from said extracted LFP signals;
determine a position of said implantable lead and/or said macro electrode contact in said body using said measured at least one LFP parameter and said stored indications.
41. A system according to claim 40, wherein said control circuitry is configured to filter said received electrical signal with a filter which extracts electrical signals in a frequency range of 0.5Hz-350Hz, and to measure values of said at least one LFP parameter from said filtered signals.
42. A system according to claim 40, wherein said at least one LFP parameter comprises power spectrum density (PSD).
43. A system according to claim 40, wherein said at least one LFP parameter comprises at least one of amplitude, power, frequency, spike detection, Audio, Area under the curve, root mean square (RMS) and firing rate.
44. A system according to claim 40, wherein said control circuitry is configured to:
calculate a first correlation value between said at least one measured SPK parameter and said stored indications, and a second correlation value between said at least one measured LFP parameter and said stored indications;
select a correlation with the highest correlation value from said first correlation value and said second correlation value; and
determine a position of said lead and/or said at least one macro electrode contact based on said selected correlation.
45. A system according to claim 33, comprising:
a user interface configured to deliver at least one human detectable indication to a user of the system; and wherein said control circuitry signals said user interface to generate said human detectable indication according to said determined position.
46. A system according to claim 45, wherein said at least one human detectable indication comprises recommendations regarding an advancement speed of the lead, an advancement direction of said lead, an advancement step size.
47. A system according to claim 33, comprising:
at least one microelectrode insertable into said body tissue;
wherein said control circuitry is connected to said at least one microelectrode, and is configured to: receive electrical signals recorded by said at least one microelectrode in said body tissue; extract SPK signals and/or LFP signals from said received electrical signals;
measure at least one SPK parameter and/or at least one LFP parameter from said extracted SPK signals and/or said extracted LFP signals;
store in said memory said measured at least one SPK parameter and/or said at least one LFP parameter as said one or more indications.
48. A system for determining a position of a lead inside a subject body, comprising:
an implantable lead insertable via an insertion trajectory through body tissue, comprising at least one macro electrode contact configured to record electrical signals from tissue surrounding said implantable lead;
a remote device, wherein said remote device stores one or more indications including a relation between a position in said body tissue and electrical measurements or indications thereof;
a control unit connectable to said implantable lead, comprising:
a communication circuitry configured to transmit and deliver signals to a remote device; a user interface configured to generate a human detectable indication;
a control circuitry connected to said at least one macro electrode contact, wherein said control circuitry is configured to:
receive electrical signals recorded by said at least one macro -electrode contact;
process said received signals to obtain SPK signals and/or LFP signals;
signal said communication circuitry to transmit said SPK signals and/or said LFP signals to said remote device;
signal said user interface to generate said human detectable indication based on signals received from said remote device via said communication circuitry, wherein said received signals comprise at least one of information regarding the position of the lead and/or the position of said macro electrode contact in said body tissue, recommendations regarding at least one advancement parameter of said lead.
49. A system according to claim 48, wherein said remote device is configured to:
measure at least one SPK parameter and/or at least one LFP parameter from said obtained SPK signals and/or LFP signals;
determine a position of said lead and/or a position of said based on said stored indications and said measured at least one SPK parameter and/or said at least one LFP parameter;
transmit said signals to said communication circuitry, wherein said signals comprise at least one of said information regarding the position of the lead and/or the position of said macro electrode contact in said body tissue, said recommendations regarding at least one advancement parameter of said lead.
50. A system according to claim 48, wherein said remote device comprises at least one of a remote computer, a remote server, a remote cloud memory storage, a remote database.
</claims>
</document>
