<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W68/02,H04W74/08,H04W76/12,H04W76/27
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAN, JAE MIN
JAIN, PUNEET
KEDALAGUDDE, MEGHASHREE DATTATRI
SHRESTHA, BHARAT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70779939
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MOBILE-TERMINATED (MT) EARLY DATA TRANSMISSION (EDT) IN CONTROL PLANE AND USER PLANE SOLUTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure describes methods, systems, and devices for mobile terminated (MT) early data transmission (EDT). In one example, a method involves receiving, by a node of the RAN, an MT EDT indication and information indicative of downlink data for transmission to a user equipment (UE) served by the RAN. The method further involves based on the information indicative of the downlink data, determining to initiate MT EDT to transmit the downlink data to the UE. The method also involves generating a Radio Resource Control (RRC) paging message comprising: (i) the MT EDT indication, (ii) an indication of a contention free (CF) physical random access channel (PRACH) resource, and (iii) an indication of an EDT-radio network temporary identifier (EDT-RNTI). Further, the method involves transmitting the RRC paging message to the UE.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. In a wireless communication system comprising a radio access network (RAN), a method for mobile terminated (MT) early data transmission (EDT), the method comprising:
receiving, by a node of the RAN, an MT EDT indication and information indicative of downlink data for transmission to a user equipment (UE) served by the RAN;
based on the information indicative of the downlink data, determining to initiate MT EDT to transmit the downlink data to the UE;
generating a Radio Resource Control (RRC) paging message comprising: (i) the MT EDT indication, (ii) an indication of a contention free (CF) physical random access channel (PRACH) resource, and (iii) an indication of an EDT-radio network temporary identifier (EDT-RNTI); and
transmitting the RRC paging message to the UE.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the information indicative of the downlink data comprises a size of the downlink data, and wherein determining to initiate the MT EDT is further based on a number of required transmission repetitions.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the CF preamble is generated using a modulo function of a UE identifier (ID) and a PRACH preamble index.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the EDT-RNTI is defined as EDT-RNTI = Paging-RNTI (P-RNTI) - constant * offset, and wherein the constant is a PRACH preamble index.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising:
receiving, from the UE, an RRC response message to the RRC paging message, the RRC response message comprising the CF preamble;
identifying the UE from the CF preamble in the RRC response message; sending to a mobility management entity (MME), via an SI application protocol (S1 -AP) initial message, a request for the downlink data; and
receiving, from the MME and via an S1 -AP response message, a downlink nonaccess stratum (NAS) protocol data unit (PDU).
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the downlink data is user plane data, and wherein the method further comprises:
retrieving a UE context and encrypting the downlink NAS PDU using the UE context; and
transmitting the downlink NAS PDU to the UE in a downlink RRC message.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the downlink RRC message further comprises a suspend indication and a new Resume ID multiplexed with the downlink NAS PDU.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the downlink data is control plane data, and wherein the method further comprises transmitting the DL PDU to the UE in a downlink RRC message.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the downlink RRC message further comprises a timing advance (TA) and an uplink grant for the UE.
10. The method of claim 5, wherein the received downlink NAS PDU is encrypted using NAS security.
1 1. The method of claim 1, wherein the MT EDT indication and information indicative of downlink data is received from a mobility management entity (MME) via an SI application protocol (S1 -AP) paging message.
12. In a wireless communication system comprising a radio access network (RAN), a method for mobile terminated (MT) early data transmission (EDT), the method comprising: generating a paging message comprising an indication of a contention-free (CF) physical random access channel (PRACH) resource and an early data transmissionradio network temporary identifier (EDT-RNTI) offset; and
encoding the paging message for transmission to a user equipment (UE).
13. In a wireless communication system comprising a radio access network (RAN), a non-transitory computer-readable storage device having stored thereon the instructions, which, when executed by a data processing apparatus, cause the data processing apparatus to perform operations for mobile terminated (MT) early data transmission (EDT), the operations comprising:
receiving, by a node of the RAN, an MT EDT indication and information indicative of downlink data for transmission to a user equipment (UE) served by the RAN;
based on the information indicative of the downlink data, determining to initiate MT EDT to transmit the downlink data to the UE;
generating a Radio Resource Control (RRC) paging message comprising: (i) the MT EDT indication, (ii) an indication of a contention free (CF) physical random access channel (PRACH) resource, and (iii) an indication of an EDT-radio network temporary identifier (EDT-RNTI); and
transmitting the RRC paging message to the UE.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 13, wherein the information indicative of the downlink data comprises a size of the downlink data, and wherein determining to initiate the MT EDT is further based on a number of required transmission repetitions.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 13, wherein the CF preamble is generated using a modulo function of a UE identifier (ID) and a PRACH preamble index.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 13, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the UE, an RRC response message to the RRC paging message, the RRC response message comprising the CF preamble;
identifying the UE from the CF preamble in the RRC response message;
sending to a mobility management entity (MME), via an S 1 application protocol (S1 -AP) initial message, a request for the downlink data; and
receiving, from the MME and via an S1 -AP response message, a downlink nonaccess stratum (NAS) protocol data unit (PDU).
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 16, wherein the downlink data is user plane data, and wherein the operations further comprise:
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 17, wherein the downlink RRC message further comprises a suspend indication and a new Resume ID multiplexed with the downlink NAS PDU.
19. A wireless communication system comprising:
a radio access network (RAN); and
one or more processors and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more processors, to cause the one or more processors to perform operations for mobile terminated (MT) early data transmission (EDT), the operations comprising:
receiving, by a node of the RAN, an MT EDT indication and information indicative of downlink data for transmission to a user equipment (UE) served by the RAN;
based on the information indicative of the downlink data, determining to initiate MT EDT to transmit the downlink data to the UE;
generating a Radio Resource Control (RRC) paging message comprising: (i) the MT EDT indication, (ii) an indication of a contention free (CF) physical random access channel (PRACH) resource, and (iii) an indication of an EDT-radio network temporary identifier (EDT-RNTI); and
transmitting the RRC paging message to the UE.
20. The system of claim 19, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the UE, an RRC response message to the RRC paging message, the RRC response message comprising the CF preamble;
identifying the UE from the CF preamble in the RRC response message;
sending to a mobility management entity (MME), via an S 1 application protocol (S1 -AP) initial message, a request for the downlink data; and
receiving, from the MME and via an S1 -AP response message, a downlink nonaccess stratum (NAS) protocol data unit (PDU).
</claims>
</document>
