<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16B20/20,G16B5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EARLHAM INSTITUTE
QUADRAM INSTITUTE BIOSCIENCE
UNIVERSITY OF EAST ANGLIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
BROOKS, JOHANNE
CARDING, SIMON R.
KORCSMAROS, TAMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64655494
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENOMIC ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
A method of identifying contribution of a genomic variation to a phenotypic feature is disclosed. The method comprises determining a degree of a genomic variation (51; Fig. ) in each individual in a set of individuals and recording the degree of genomic variation in each individual in a database, for example, in a first table (6). The method comprises determining a location of the genomic variation to allow determination, by virtue of the location, of whether the genomic variation affects a gene product directly and/or regulates production of a gene product (53, 54; Fig. 5). The method comprises determining a first gene (51; Fig. 5) affected by the genomic variation. When the genomic variation affects a gene product directly, recording the gene, in the coding sequence of which the genomic variation is located, as the first gene, for example, in a second table (7). When the genomic variation regulates the production of a gene product, recording the gene, in the promoter region or other regulatory region of which the genomic variation is located, as the first gene. The method comprises determining an outcome of the genomic variation on the first gene and recording the outcome of the genomic variation in the database, for example, in the second table and determining the presence or absence of one or more other gene products (i) interacting with the first gene, (ii) encoded by the first gene; and/or (iii) regulating the first gene and, if present, recording the identity of the gene encoding the one or more other gene products in the database as the second gene, for example, in the second table.
</abstract>

<claims>
- 3i -
Claims
1. A method of identifying contribution of a genomic variation to a phenotypic feature, the method comprising:
determining a degree of a genomic variation in each individual in a set of individuals and recording the degree of genomic variation in each individual in a database;
determining a location of the genomic variation to allow determination, by virtue of the location, of whether the genomic variation affects a gene product directly and/or regulates production of a gene product;
determining a first gene affected by the genomic variation wherein:
when the genomic variation affects a gene product directly, recording the gene, in the coding sequence of which the genomic variation is located, as the first gene;
when the genomic variation regulates the production of a gene product, recording the gene, in the promoter region or other regulatory region of which the genomic variation is located, as the first gene;
determining an outcome of the genomic variation on the first gene and recording the outcome of the genomic variation in the database; and
determining the presence or absence of one or more other gene products:
(i) interacting with the first gene;
(ii) encoded by the first gene; and/ or
(iii) regulating the first gene; and
if present, recording the identity of the gene encoding the one or more other gene products in the database as the second gene.
2. A method, comprising:
determining a degree of a genomic variation in each individual in a set of individuals and recording the degree of genomic variation in each individual in a database;
determining a location of the genomic variation to allow determination, by virtue of the location, of whether the genomic variation affects a gene product directly and/or regulates production of a gene product;
determining a first gene affected by the genomic variation wherein: when the genomic variation affects a gene product directly, recording the gene, in the coding sequence of which the genomic variation is located, as the first gene;
when the genomic variation regulates the production of a gene product, recording the gene, in the promoter region or other regulatory region of which the genomic variation is located, as the first gene; and
determining an outcome of the genomic variation on the first gene and recording the outcome of the genomic variation in the database. 3. A method of determining the presence or absence of one or more other gene products, wherein a degree of genomic variation in each individual in a set of individuals has been recorded in a database, a location of the genomic variation to allow determination, by virtue of the location, of whether the genomic variation affects a gene product directly and/or regulates production of a gene product has been determined, a first gene affected by the genomic variation has been determined wherein, when the genomic variation affects a gene product directly, the gene has been recorded, in the coding sequence of which the genomic variation is located, as the first gene and, when the genomic variation regulates the production of a gene product, the gene has been recorded, in the promoter region or other regulatory region of which the genomic variation is located, as the first gene, and an outcome of the genomic variation on the first gene has been determined and recorded in the database, the method comprising:
determining the presence or absence of one or more other gene products:
(i) interacting with the first gene;
(ii) encoded by the first gene; and/ or
(iii) regulating the first gene; and
if present, recording the identity of the gene encoding the one or more other gene products in the database as the second gene, optionally in the second database. 4. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein a genomic variation that regulates the production of a gene product is a genomic variation located outside of a coding region of a gene and within the promotor region or other regulatory region of said gene, and transcription or transcription and translation of the gene has the effect of modifying the production of the gene product.
5. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein when the genomic variation regulates the production of a gene product, the first gene is identified by: assessing the flanking sequences of the genomic variation for transcription factor binding sites (TFBS) and/or miRNA target sites (miRNA-TS);
classifying the effect of the genomic variation on the TFBS or miRNA-TS as loss or gain of binding site/target or a neutral change; and identifying the gene
corresponding to the loss or gain effect as the first gene.
6. A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the flanking sequences are 50 bases upstream and downstream of the genomic variation.
7. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, further comprising recording the gene product(s) encoded by the first gene in the database and/or recording the one or more other gene products in the database.
8. A method as claimed in claim 7, further comprising generating a genetic profile for each individual within the set of individuals, wherein the genetic profile comprises one or more of: the degree of genomic variation; the location of the genomic variation; the outcome of the genomic variation; the first gene; the second gene; the gene product(s) encoded by the first gene, and the one more other gene products.
9. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8, further comprising clustering individuals within the set of individuals based on similarities in their genetic profile. 10. A method of identifying, from a group of individuals with a particular phenotypic feature, individuals with one or more common genomic variations using the method of claim 8 or claim 9.
11. A method of identifying, from a group of individuals with a particular phenotypic feature, an individual with a susceptibility to one or more treatment pathways using the method of claim 8 or claim 9.
12. A method of determining the susceptibility of an individual to a particular treatment pathway using the method of claim 8 or claim 9.
13. A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the individual has one or more phenotypic features, and the treatment pathway is associated with one or more of the phenotypic features. 14. A method of assigning an individual to one of a certain number of treatment pathways, the method comprising obtaining a sample from each said individual and creating, for each sample, a genetic profile using a method according to claim 8.
15. A method of assigning an individual to one of a certain number of treatment pathways on the basis of their genetic profile as created using a method according to claim 8; and in particular, a method of assigning an individual with one or more phenotypic features to one of a certain number of treatment pathways on the basis of their genetic profile as created using a method according to claim 8, wherein the treatment pathway is relevant to one or more aspects of their genetic profile.
16. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the genomic variation is one or more of an allelic variation, polymorphism or mutation in DNA or RNA, missense or non-synonymous, synonymous and nonsense mutations, insertions, deletions, substitutions, inversions, frameshift mutations, repeat expansions, duplications, copy number variations, point mutations, single nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs), and epigenetic modifications.
17. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the genomic variation is a SNP.
18. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein the phenotypic feature is a disease, clinical condition or pathology, a stage of a disease, clinical condition or pathology; a marker of a disease, clinical condition or pathology, a response to treatment of a disease, clinical condition or pathology or a stage of a disease, clinical condition or pathology.
19. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 18, wherein the phenotypic feature is elevation of one or more markers of inflammation; depression of a metabolite or hormone; presence or absence of biomarkers associated with a disease or condition; elevation or depression of expression of transcripts, proteins and/or metabolites, or altered levels of cell death markers.
20. A method as claimed in any one of claims l to 19, wherein the individual is a mammal or a bacterium, preferably wherein the individual is a human. 21. A method as claimed in claim 20, wherein the individual is a human and the phenotypic feature is a disease or clinical condition.
22. A method as claimed in claim 21, wherein the phenotypic feature is ulcerative colitis.
23. A method as claimed in claim 22, wherein the genomic variation is a SNP.
24. A method as claimed in claim 17 or claim 22, wherein the degree of genomic variation is the presence or absence of the SNP.
25. A Notch pathway inhibitor or MAML2 inhibitor for use in treating individuals with ulcerative colitis having a mutation in a Notch signalling pathway member, but not a mutation in an NFkB pathway member. 26. A Notch pathway inhibitor or MAML2 inhibitor for use in treating individuals with ulcerative colitis as claimed in claim 25, wherein the Notch signalling pathway member is MAML2, and/or the NFkB pathway member is NFkB or PRKCB, and/or the inhibitor is a gamma-secretase inhibitor. 27. A Notch pathway inhibitor or MAML2 inhibitor for use in a method of treating individuals with ulcerative colitis wherein the method comprises (i) determining whether a test sample from the patient comprises a mutation in a Notch signalling pathway member; and (ii) determining whether a test sample from the same individual does not comprise a mutation in an NFkB pathway member, and if the test sample from the patient comprises a mutation in a Notch signalling pathway member and not a mutation in an NFkB pathway member, administering to the patient an effective amount of a Notch pathway inhibitor or MAML2 inhibitor.
28. A Notch pathway inhibitor or MAML2 inhibitor for use in a method of treating individuals with ulcerative colitis as claimed in claim 27, wherein the Notch pathway member is MAML2, and/or the NFkB pathway member is NFkB or PRKCB and/or the inhibitor is a gamma-secretase inhibitor.
29. An inhibitor for use in treating individuals with ulcerative colitis having a genomic variation in a member of a specific pathway associated with a cell type, wherein the genomic variation increases function of the cell type, and the inhibitor inhibits the function or number of the cell type, wherein the cell type is a fibroblast, myofibroblast, regulatoiy T -cell, B-cell, macrophage or dendritic cell; or
an activator for use in treating individuals with ulcerative colitis having a genomic variation in a member of a specific pathway associated with a cell type, wherein the genomic variation decreases function of the cell type, and the activator increases the function or number of the cell type, wherein the cell type is a fibroblast, myofibroblast, regulatoiy T -cell, B-cell, macrophage or dendritic cell. 30. An inhibitor or activator for use in treating individuals with ulcerative colitis having a genomic variation in a member of a specific pathway associated with a cell type as claimed in claim 29, wherein the inhibitor or activator is a B-cell inhibitor or activator, and the genomic variation is a genomic variation in a B-cell pathway member.
31. A B-cell inhibitor or activator for use in a method of treating individuals with ulcerative colitis wherein the method comprises (i) determining whether a test sample from the patient comprises a genomic variation in a B-cell pathway member; (ii) if the test sample comprises a genomic variation in a B-cell pathway member establishing if the genomic variation is a gain or loss of function variation; (iii) if the test sample from the patient comprises:
(a) a gain of function genomic variation, administering to the patient an effective amount of a B-cell inhibitor; or
(b) a loss of function genomic variation, administering to the patient an effective amount of a B-cell activator.
32. A computer program which, when executed by one or more processors, causes the one or more processors perform the method of any one of claims 1 to 24. 33· Apparatus comprising:
at least one processor; and memory;
wherein the at least one processor is configured to perform the method of any one of claims 1 to 24.
</claims>
</document>
