<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/248,G06F7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NANT HOLDINGS IP
</assignee>

<inventors>
SOON-SHIONG, PATRICK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70552261
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CURATION AND PROVISION OF DIGITAL CONTENT
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes accessing a structured content item from a first database and event data from a second database, the event data including sets of event attributes in a multi-dimensional namespace and associated with a respective point in time; determining a relevancy profile characterizing a metric of relevancy of the structured content item over a respective time interval, the metric of relevancy including a distance in the multi-dimensional namespace between attributes associated with the structured content and the sets of event attributes; generating, using the relevancy profile, second digital content including a subset of the structured content item; and providing the second digital content for rendering on a device. Related apparatus, systems, techniques and articles are also described.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising:
accessing a structured content item from a first database and event data from a second database, the event data including sets of event attributes in a multi dimensional namespace and associated with a respective point in time;
determining a relevancy profile characterizing a metric of relevancy of the structured content item over a respective time interval, the metric of relevancy including a distance in the multi-dimensional namespace between attributes associated with the structured content and the sets of event attributes;
generating, using the relevancy profile, second digital content including a subset of the structured content item; and
providing the second digital content for rendering on a device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein accessing the structured content item from the first database includes accessing a plurality of structured content items, wherein the relevancy profile characterizes each of the plurality of structured content items over a respective time interval, the metric of relevancy including distances in the multi dimensional namespace between the attributes associated with the structured content and the sets of event attributes, and wherein the second digital content including a subset of the plurality of structured content items.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the determining of the relevancy profile is performed further using at least one predictive model, wherein the at least one predictive model maps the structured content associated attributes to the sets of event attributes; and wherein the at least one predictive model maps the sets of event attributes to the structured content associated attributes.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the at least one predictive model includes at least one rules set executed by an inference engine.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the at least one rules set includes rules operating according to at least one of the following: deductive reasoning, abductive reasoning, case-based reasoning, inductive reasoning, metaphorical mapping, and fuzzy logic.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the at least one predictive model includes at least one of: Naive Bayes model, k-nearest neighbor model, majority classifier model, support vector machine model, random forest model, boosted tree model,
classification and regression tree model, neural network, and logistic regression model.
7. The method of claim 2, further comprising:
determining an uncertainty measure associated with the determined metric of relevancy of each of the plurality of structured content items over the respective time interval.
8. The method of claim 2, further comprising:
determining, using the relevancy profile and for at least one of the plurality of structured content items, that the relevancy metric of the at least one of the plurality of structured content items exceeds a predefined threshold; and
wherein the second digital content includes content associated with the at least one of the plurality of structured content items for which the relevancy metric exceeds the predefined threshold.
9. The method of claim 2, further comprising:
receive a mechanical turk request characterizing a request for the metric of relevancy of each of the plurality of structured content items over a respective time interval;
convert the mechanical turk request into a mechanical turk project;
receive mechanical turk project results from at least one member interface characterizing the metric of relevancy of each of the plurality of structured content items over a respective time interval; and
provide the mechanical turk project results for use in generating the second digital content.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising providing the mechanical turk project results to the predictive model as a supervisory signal to modify the predictive model.
11. The method of claim 2, further comprising:
receive a request for the metric of relevancy of each of the plurality of structured content items over a respective time interval;
receive results from at least one member interface characterizing the metric of relevancy of each of the plurality of structured content items over a respective time interval; and
provide the results for use in generating the second digital content.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising providing the results to the predictive model as a supervisory signal to modify the predictive model.
13. The method of claim 2, further comprising:
identifying, using the at least one predictive model, an additional structured content item that would improve an uncertainty measure; and
requesting additional digital content associated with the additional structured content item, the additional digital content requested from a remote resource.
14. The method of claim 2, wherein at least one of the structured content items is indicative of one or more of: an image, an xray image, a catscan image, an magnetric resonance image (MRI) dataset, an audio file, an electrocardiogram signal, a heat rate signal, and a structured text.
15. The method of claim 2, wherein the second digital content characterizes the subset of the plurality of structured content items in a video format.
16. The method of claim 2, wherein generating the second digital content is performed prior to the determinable time of at least one event, the second database is configured to receive and store additional event data; and the method further comprising: accessing the additional event data from the second database;
determining an updated relevancy profile characterizing the metric of relevancy of at least one of the plurality of structured content items over at least a portion of the respective time interval;
generating, using the at least one of the plurality of structured content items and the determined updated relevancy profile, updated second digital content including a second subset of the plurality of structured content items; and
providing the updated second digital content for rendering on a device.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the attributes associate with the structured content characterize: a creation time of the structured content, an open response description of the structured content, a predefined type of content, an author of the structured content, a format of the structured content, a temporal relevancy of the structured content, a permission level of the structured content, a modality of the structured content, or a topic of the structured content.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the first database includes a single database; a distribute database; and/or information stored in or on a distributed ledger.
19. The method of claim 1 , wherein the relevancy profile characterizes relevancy with respect to an absolute time, a relative time, a periodic time, a deterministic time, and/or a scheduled time.
20. The method of claim 2, wherein providing the second digital content for rendering on the device includes rendering the subset of the plurality of structured content items within a webpage, a temporal presentation, and/or a video, wherein a location within the webpage, the temporal presentation, and/or the video of each item of the subset of the plurality of structured content is based on a ranking of the respective metric of relevancy.
21. A system comprising: a content database storing a plurality of structured content items, the structured content including associated attributes in a multi-dimensional namespace;
an event database storing event data characterizing an occurrence happening at a determinable time, the event data including sets of event attributes in the multi dimensional namespace and each set of event attributes associated with a point in time relative to the determinable time; and
a predictive engine including at least one data processor and memory storing instructions, which when executed by the at least one data processor, cause the at least one data processor to perform operations comprising:
accessing the plurality of structured content items from the content database and the event data from the event database;
determining a relevancy profile characterizing a metric of relevancy of each of the plurality of structured content items over a respective time interval, the metric of relevancy including distances in the multi-dimensional namespace between the attributes associated with the structured content and the sets of event attributes, the determining performed using the plurality of structured content items and the event data;
generating, using the plurality of structured content items and the determined relevancy profile characterizing the metric of relevancy of the plurality of structured content items over the time interval, second digital content including a subset of the plurality of structured content items; and
providing the second digital content for rendering on a device.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the determining of the relevancy profile is performed further using at least one predictive model, wherein the at least one predictive model maps the structured content associated attributes to the sets of event attributes; and wherein the at least one predictive model maps the sets of event attributes to the structured content associated attributes.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the predictive engine includes at least one inference engine and the at least one predictive model includes at least one rules set.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the at least one rules set includes rules operating according to at least one of the following: deductive reasoning, abductive reasoning, case-based reasoning, inductive reasoning, metaphorical mapping, and fuzzy logic.
25. The system of claim 22, wherein the at least one predictive model includes at least one of: Naive Bayes model, k-nearest neighbor model, majority classifier model, support vector machine model, random forest model, boosted tree model,
classification and regression tree model, neural network, and logistic regression model.
26. The system of claim 21, the operations further comprising:
determining an uncertainty measure associated with the determined metric of relevancy of each of the plurality of structured content items over the respective time interval.
27. The system of claim 21, further comprising:
a data interface configured to acquire digital content, convert the digital content into a predetermined structure, and store the converted digital content in the content database as an item in the plurality of structured content items.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein the data interface includes an N-gram dataset interface configured to receive an N-gram dataset indicative and predictive of fitness of an individual, the fitness including a numerical index representing a composite effect of various health conditions of the individual including interdependencies of the health conditions, the N-gram dataset interface configured to convert the N-gram dataset into at least one structured content items.
29. The system of claim 27, wherein the data interface includes a health object identifier interface configured to receive a health object identifier including a patient identifier portion and an object identifier portion, the patient identifier portion derived at least in part from biometric data associated with a patient.
30. The system of claim 27, the data interface further comprising an event engine configured to receive attribute data associated with an entity and generate the event data including the sets of event attributes.
31. The system of claim 21, the operations further comprising:
determining, using the relevancy profile and for at least one of the plurality of structured content items, that the relevancy metric of the at least one of the plurality of structured content items exceeds a predefined threshold; and
wherein the second digital content includes content associated with the at least one of the plurality of structured content items for which the relevancy metric exceeds the predefined threshold.
32. The system of claim 21, further comprising:
a mechanical turk engine including at least one data processor and memory storing instructions, which when executed by the at least one data processor, cause the at least one data processor to perform operations comprising:
receive a mechanical turk request characterizing a request for the metric of relevancy of each of the plurality of structured content items over a respective time interval;
convert the mechanical turk request into a mechanical turk project;
receive mechanical turk project results from at least one member interface characterizing the metric of relevancy of each of the plurality of structured content items over a respective time interval; and
provide the mechanical turk project results to the predictive engine for use in generating the second digital content.
33. The system of claim 32, wherein the predictive engine is configured to receive the mechanical turk project results and provide the mechanical turk project results to the predictive model as a supervisory signal to modify the predictive model.
34. The system of claim 21, further comprising: a user interface engine including at least one data processor and memory storing instructions, which when executed by the at least one data processor, cause the at least one data processor to perform operations comprising:
receive a request for the metric of relevancy of each of the plurality of structured content items over a respective time interval;
receive results from at least one member interface characterizing the metric of relevancy of each of the plurality of structured content items over a respective time interval; and
provide the results to the predictive engine for use in generating the second digital content.
35. The system of claim 34, wherein the predictive engine is configured to receive the results from the at least one member interface and provide the results to the predictive model as a supervisory signal to modify the predictive model.
36. The system of claim 21, wherein the predictive engine is configured to identify, using the at least one predictive model, an additional structured content item that would improve an uncertainty measure, wherein the system further comprises: a content enrichment engine including at least one data processor and memory storing instructions, which when executed by the at least one data processor, cause the at least one data processor to perform operations comprising:
receive data characterizing the additional structured content item; and request additional digital content associated with the additional structured content item, the additional digital content requested from a remote resource.
37. The system of claim 21, wherein at least one of the structured content items is indicative of one or more of: an image, an xray image, a catscan image, an magnetric resonance image (MRI) dataset, an audio file, an electrocardiogram signal, a heat rate signal, and a structured text.
38. The system of claim 21, wherein the second digital content characterizes the subset of the plurality of structured content items in a video format.
39. The system of claim 21, wherein generating the second digital content is performed prior to the determinable time of at least one event, the event database is configured to receive and store additional event data; and the operations further comprising:
accessing the additional event data from the event database;
determining an updated relevancy profile characterizing the metric of relevancy of at least one of the plurality of structured content items over at least a portion of the respective time interval;
generating, using the at least one of the plurality of structured content items and the determined updated relevancy profile, updated second digital content including a second subset of the plurality of structured content items; and
providing the updated second digital content for rendering on a device.
40. The system of claim 21, wherein the attributes associate with the structured content characterize: a creation time of the structured content, an open response description of the structured content, a predefined type of content, an author of the structured content, a format of the structured content, a temporal relevancy of the structured content, a permission level of the structured content, a modality of the structured content, or a topic of the structured content.
41. The system of claim 21, wherein the content database includes a single database; a distribute database; and/or information stored in or on a distributed ledger.
42. The system of claim 21, wherein the relevancy profile characterizes relevancy with respect to an absolute time, a relative time, a periodic time, a deterministic time, and/or a scheduled time.
43. The system of claim 21, wherein providing the second digital content for rendering on the device includes rendering the subset of the plurality of structured content items within a webpage, a temporal presentation, and/or a video, wherein a location within the webpage, the temporal presentation, and/or the video of each item of the subset of the plurality of structured content is based on a ranking of the respective metric of relevancy.
</claims>
</document>
