<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B3/00,A61B3/12,A61B3/135,A61B3/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
MELLES RESEARCH FOUNDATION USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
TALKE, FRANK
TRUONG, PHUONG
PHAN, ALEX
TRUONG, BUU
WILLIAMS, NICOLAS
MELLES, GERRIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70332278
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PORTABLE SCREENING DEVICES AND SYSTEMS FOR REMOTE OPTHALMIC DIAGNOSTICS
</title>

<abstract>
A device provides remote ophthalmic examinations and includes one, plural or all of the following capabilities: slit lamp examinations, visual acuity examinations, fundoscopy, and eye pressure assessment. Preferred devices enable a patient to self-align or adjust device themselves without the help of a professional, collect and store data and can transmit data when a connection is available to a professional or an analysis system, such as a machine learning system, for evaluation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An ophthalmic device comprising a hand-held housing with an eye facing side, a slit beam lamp associated with the housing for directing a beam of light onto and into the eye of a patient having an eye placed up to the eye facing side, and a sensor to image the eye of the patient.
2. The device of claim 1, comprising a data interface for providing image data of the sensor to ophthalmic analysis software or an ophthalmic professional.
3. The device of any preceding claim, wherein a slit beam of the lamp is outside of the field of vision patient.
4. The device of any preceding claim, wherein the data interface is an internet connection.
5. The method of any preceding claim, wherein data interface is a wireless connection.
6. The device of any preceding claim, comprising visual acuity means for measuring visual acuity.
7. The device of any preceding claim further comprising pressure measurement means for measuring intraocular pressure.
8. The device of any preceding claim, comprising alignment means for aiding the patient to align the device.
9. The device of any preceding claim, wherein the hand-held housing comprises a side that holds and interfaces a smartphone, and an opposite side includes a lens in the eye facing side, and the data interface is through the smartphone.
10. The device of any preceding claim, wherein the slit beam lamp is configured and positioned to project a slit light into the anterior chamber of the eye.
11. The device of any preceding claim, wherein the slit beam lamp is configured and positioned to project a slight light into the posterior chamber of the eye.
12. The device of any preceding claim, wherein the hand-held housing comprises a substantially closed chamber defining the eye facing side, the device further comprising a concave optics said chamber to reflect an image of the eye along an optical path in the chamber back towards the eye facing side of the chamber, thereby allowing the patient to focus on the eye.
13. The device of claim 12, wherein a focal length of the concave optics is in a range from circa 1 cm to circa 1 m.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein the focal length of the concave optics is in a range from circa 5 cm to circa 20 cm.
15. The device of claim 12, wherein the concave optics provide a plurality of projections of the eye so the patient to focus on a projection matching the patient's visual acuity.
16. The device of any preceding claim, wherein the sensor comprises a camera and the camera is a self-focusing camera.
17. The device of any preceding claim, wherein the sensor comprises a pair of cameras arranged for stereo-imaging of the eye.
18. The device of any preceding claim, wherein the slit beam lamp comprises a plurality of slit beam lamps arranged to generate a plurality of slit light beams at a plurality of circumferential positions and elevational angles with respect to the eye.
19. The device of claim 18, wherein the plurality of slit beam lamps are arranged at a plurality of offset distances from the eye facing side.
20. The device of any preceding claim, wherein the hand-held housing comprises a substantially closed chamber defining the eye facing side, the device further comprising a concave mirror and an angled two-way mirror arranged in the chamber to reflect an image of the eye along an optical path in the chamber back towards the eye facing, thereby allowing the patient to focus on the eye, and to provide the sensor with an image path to the eye.
21. The device of any preceding claim, further comprising an eye cup on the eye facing side.
22. The device of claim 21, comprising ambient light control lamps in the eye cup.
23. The device of claim 21, comprising a pressurizer to control pressure applied to the eye when in the eye cup.
24. The device of any preceding claim, comprising a display for displaying visual stimulus to the eye of the patient.
25. The device of claim 24, wherein the display is controlled to provide a dynamic visual acuity test stimulus with varying characters of varying sizes.
26. The device of claim 24, wherein the display is controlled to project a pattern onto the eye that permits detection of contour variations indicative of intraocular pressure level.
27. The device of claim 24, wherein the display and sensor are controlled to make corneal and crystalline lens transparency measurements by densitometry (backward scatter) and stray light measurements (forward scatter).
28. The device of claim 24, wherein the display and sensor are controlled to make corneal, crystalline lens and retinal polarization measurements.
29. The device of claim 24, wherein the display and sensor are controlled to make Doppler flow readings to measure changes arterial and venous perfusion of one or more eye structures.
30. The device of claim 24, wherein the display and sensor are controlled to make blood volume content measurement of one or more eye structures.
31. The device of any preceding claim, wherein the hand-held housing defines contours on its eye facing side contoured to match a patient face and includes twoeye cups for a patient to align the patient's eyes and optics for directing the beam of light to one eye and image data from a display to another eye.
32. The device of claim 30, wherein the device is configured to be flipped so a patient can switch eyes that receive the beam of light and the image data.
33. The device of claim 31 or 32, comprising a smartphone holder on an opposite side from the eye facing side.
34. The device of claim 33, wherein the image sensor is a camera of the smartphone.
35. The device of claim 31, wherein the image sensor comprises a camera built-in the hand-held housing.
36. An ophthalmic device comprising a hand-held housing that defines contours on its eye facing side contoured to match a patient face and includes two-eye cups for a patient to align the patient's eyes and optics for directing a beam of light from a slit beam source in the housing to one eye and image data from a display in the housing to another eye.
37. The device of claim 36, wherein the device is configured to be flipped so a patient can switch eyes that receive the beam of light and the image data.
38. The device of claim 36 or 37, comprising a smartphone holder on an opposite side from the eye facing side.
39. An ophthalmic device comprising housing enclosing magnets to attach the device to a smartphone, a two way mirror positioned by the housing to align with a camera of the smartphone, and a slit light source within the housing and optics to direct a slit light beam onto an into a patient's eye when the patient is focusing on a reflection of the patient's eye in the two way mirror.
40. The device of claim 39, wherein the optics present the slit light source from an angle that is outside the field of vision of the patient when the patient is focusing on a reflection of the patient's eye in the two-way mirror.
41. A system including a device of any preceding and further comprising software for receiving the data and conducting an ophthalmic measurement using the data.
42. A system including a device of any preceding and further comprising software for receiving the data and conducting an ophthalmic measurement using the data, wherein the eye has an implanted sensor, and light from outside is directed at the eye to form interference fringes that can be read out with the system.
43. A system including a device of any preceding and further comprising software for receiving the data and conducting an ophthalmic measurement using the data, wherein the eye has an implanted sensor, and the response of the sensor due to pressure changes can be read out with the system.
44. A system according to claim 42, wherein the response of the sensor is an optical response.
45. Software for processing data from a remote ophthalmic device, the software comprising code for receiving the data and conducting an ophthalmic measurement using the data.
</claims>
</document>
