<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/44,A63F13/497
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NVIDIA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
Sundareson, Prabindh
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71993983
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETERMINING HIGH-INTEREST DURATIONS OF GAMEPLAY SESSIONS FROM USER INPUTS
</title>

<abstract>
In various examples, durations of relatively high user activity within a gameplay session may be determined from user input events using a running user activity measurement. Once a duration is identified, it may be further analyzed to merge the duration with one or more other durations and/or to determine or predict whether the duration would be of sufficient interest for further action. A user interest score for an identified duration may be computed based on a set of the user input events that occur in the duration and used to determine and/or predict whether the duration would be of sufficient interest for further action. In some cases, an action may be performed based on determining the user interest score is greater than a statistical value that is computed from user interest scores of multiple identified durations.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method comprising: determining a representation of user activity during a gameplay session based at least in part on user input events generated responsive to user inputs received using one or more input devices during the gameplay session; identifying a duration of potential interest within the gameplay session based at least in part on the value of the user activity measurement; computing a user interest score for the duration of potential interest based at least in part on a set of the user input events that occur in the duration of potential interest; determining the user interest score exceeds a threshold value; and presenting, on a user device, an indication of the duration of potential interest based at least in part on the user interest score exceeding the threshold value.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the user activity measurement corresponds to a frequency of the user input events for a given time within gameplay session.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the user input events corresponds to one or more of a respective button actuation or a respective combination of button actuations.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the duration of potential interest within the gameplay session comprises determining the value of the user activity measurement exceeds a threshold value. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying, from the set of the user input events, one or more action commands that are predefined for a game of the gameplay session, wherein the user interest score is increased based on the one or more action commands being identified from the set of user input events.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining that the set of the user input events do not include one or more action commands that are predefined for a game of the gameplay session, wherein the user interest score is decreased based on the one or more action commands not being included in the set of user input events. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the user interest score is computed based on a number of the user input events that occur in the duration of potential interest within the gameplay session.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the user interest score is computed based on a length of the duration of potential interest within the gameplay session.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the user interest score is computed based on an actuation speed of the one or more input devices.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying one or more of the input events as corresponding to non-gameplay activity, wherein the user activity measurement is based on the one or more of the input events being identified as corresponding to non-gameplay activity.
11. A method comprising: monitoring a user activity measurement over a period of time of a gameplay session, the user activity measurement corresponding to a frequency of user input events generated responsive to user inputs to one or more input devices during the gameplay session; determining, based at least in part on the monitoring, that the user activity measurement exceeds a threshold value; determining a duration within the gameplay session based at least in part on a time that the user activity measurement exceeds the threshold value; computing a user interest score for the duration based at least in part on a set of the user input events that occur in the duration; and presenting, on a user device, an indication of the duration based at least in part on the user interest score.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein determining that the user activity measurement exceeds a threshold value includes determining the user activity measurement is greater than the threshold value, and a start time of the duration is based on the time that the user activity measurement exceeds the threshold value.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein determining that the user activity measurement exceeds a threshold value includes determining the user activity measurement is less than the threshold value, and an end time of the duration is based on the time that the user activity measurement exceeds the threshold value. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the threshold value corresponds to a statistic computed from values of the user activity measurement over the gameplay session.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining a different duration within the gameplay session based at least in part on a different time that the user activity measurement exceeds the threshold value within the gameplay session; computing a user interest score for the different duration based at least in part on a set of the user input events that occur in the different duration; and presenting, on the user device, an indication of the different duration based at least in part on the user interest score for the different duration.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the duration is one of a plurality of durations within the gameplay session that are determined from the monitoring of the user activity measurement, and the method further comprises computing a statistical value on user interest scores of the plurality of durations, wherein presenting the indication of the duration is based on determining the user interest score is greater than the statistical value.
17. A method comprising: determining, from user input data of a gameplay session, durations of relatively high user activity within the gameplay session based at least in part on user input events generated responsive to user inputs to one or more input devices during the gameplay session; computing user interest scores for the durations of relatively high user activity based on sets of the user input events that occur in the durations of relatively high user activity; selecting one or more of the durations of relatively high user activity based on the user interest scores; based on the selection of the one or more durations, identifying from video data of the gameplay session one or more video clips that correspond to the one or more durations; and generating data representative of a highlight reel of the gameplay session from the one or more video clips identified from the video data.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the data representative of the highlight reel includes data representative of video frames of the video clips extracted from the video data based on the one or more durations.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein determining the durations of relatively high user activity within the gameplay session comprises determining values of a user activity measurement exceed a threshold value. 20. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining, from the user input data of the gameplay session, a different duration of relatively high user activity within the gameplay session based at least in part on the user input events; and merging the different duration with the duration based on a length of the different duration and a proximity of the different duration to the duration to form a combined duration within the gameplay session, wherein the at least one of the one or more video clips correspond to the combined duration. AMENDED CLAIMS
received by the International Bureau on 28 October 2020 (28.10.2020)
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A method comprising: determining a representation of user activity during a gameplay session based at least in part on user input events generated responsive to user inputs received using one or more input devices during the gameplay session; identifying a duration of potential interest within the gameplay session based at least in part on the representation of user activity; computing a user interest score for the duration of potential interest based at least in part on a set of the user input events that occur in the duration of potential interest; determining the user interest score exceeds a threshold value; and presenting, on a user device, an indication of the duration of potential interest based at least in part on the user interest score exceeding the threshold value.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the representation of user activity corresponds to a frequency of the user input events for a given time within gameplay session.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the user input events corresponds to one or more of a respective button actuation or a respective combination of button actuations.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the duration of potential interest within the gameplay session comprises determining the representation of user activity exceeds a threshold value.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying, from the set of the user input events, one or more action commands that are predefined for a game of the gameplay session, wherein the user interest score is increased based on the one or more action commands being identified from the set of user input events.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining that the set of the user input events do not include one or more action commands that are predefined for a game of the gameplay session, wherein the user interest score is decreased based on the one or more action commands not being included in the set of user input events. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the user interest score is computed based on a number of the user input events that occur in the duration of potential interest within the gameplay session.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the user interest score is computed based on a length of the duration of potential interest within the gameplay session.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the user interest score is computed based on an actuation speed of the one or more input devices.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying one or more of the input events as corresponding to non-gameplay activity, wherein the representation of user activity is based on the one or more of the input events being identified as corresponding to non-gameplay activity.
11. A method comprising: monitoring a user activity measurement over a period of time of a gameplay session, the user activity measurement corresponding to a frequency of user input events generated responsive to user inputs to one or more input devices during the gameplay session; determining, based at least in part on the monitoring, that the user activity measurement exceeds a threshold value; determining a duration within the gameplay session based at least in part on a time that the user activity measurement exceeds the threshold value; computing a user interest score for the duration based at least in part on a set of the user input events that occur in the duration; and presenting, on a user device, an indication of the duration based at least in part on the user interest score.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein determining that the user activity measurement exceeds a threshold value includes determining the user activity measurement is greater than the threshold value, and a start time of the duration is based on the time that the user activity measurement exceeds the threshold value.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein determining that the user activity measurement exceeds a threshold value includes determining the user activity measurement is less than the threshold value, and an end time of the duration is based on the time that the user activity measurement exceeds the threshold value. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the threshold value corresponds to a statistic computed from values of the user activity measurement over the gameplay session.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining a different duration within the gameplay session based at least in part on a different time that the user activity measurement exceeds the threshold value within the gameplay session; computing a user interest score for the different duration based at least in part on a set of the user input events that occur in the different duration; and presenting, on the user device, an indication of the different duration based at least in part on the user interest score for the different duration.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the duration is one of a plurality of durations within the gameplay session that are determined from the monitoring of the user activity measurement, and the method further comprises computing a statistical value on user interest scores of the plurality of durations, wherein presenting the indication of the duration is based on determining the user interest score is greater than the statistical value.
17. A method comprising: determining, from user input data of a gameplay session, durations of relatively high user activity within the gameplay session based at least in part on user input events generated responsive to user inputs to one or more input devices during the gameplay session; computing user interest scores for the durations of relatively high user activity based on sets of the user input events that occur in the durations of relatively high user activity; selecting one or more of the durations of relatively high user activity based on the user interest scores; based on the selection of the one or more durations, identifying from video data of the gameplay session one or more video clips that correspond to the one or more durations; and generating data representative of a highlight reel of the gameplay session from the one or more video clips identified from the video data.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the data representative of the highlight reel includes data representative of video frames of the video clips extracted from the video data based on the one or more durations.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein determining the durations of relatively high user activity within the gameplay session comprises determining values of a user activity measurement exceed a threshold value.
20. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining, from the user input data of the gameplay session, a different duration of relatively high user activity within the gameplay session based at least in part on the user input events; and merging the different duration with the duration based on a length of the different duration and a proximity of the different duration to the duration to form a combined duration within the gameplay session, wherein the at least one of the one or more video clips correspond to the combined duration.
</claims>
</document>
