<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W20/12,B60W30/18,G01C21/34,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SF MOTORS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUO, RUI
TANG YIFAN
WANG FAN
LI, Yiqian
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73288911
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENERGY EFFICIENT PATH PLANNING OF AUTONOMOUS ELECTRIC VEHICLE
</title>

<abstract>
An AV that can automatically determine a route that is optimized based on the route energy costs and an optimized path within the route based on energy efficiency associated with the path. By optimizing the route and path selection based on energy costs and efficiently, a driving range of an AV maybe extended and battery usage can be reduced. The energy consumption optimization may be performed at the routing level when selecting a route and at a path level when determining how to proceed or navigate along a particular path. The energy costs determination may be performed for an autonomous vehicle implemented as an electronic vehicle (EV) as well as an autonomous vehicle implemented as an electronic vehicle with a range extender system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for automatically navigating a vehicle based on energy costs of a route and a path along the route, comprising:
a data processing system comprising one or more processors, memory, a planning module, and a control module, the planning module including:
a routing module that selects a route from a plurality of routes for the vehicle based at least in part on the energy costs of each of the plurality of routes, the route having an origin and a destination,
a path module that determines a path from a plurality of paths for a subsection of the route based at least on energy costs of each of the plurality of paths, and
a plurality of data sets having energy cost and efficiency data, the routing module accessing a portion of the plurality of data sets to determine energy cost for at least one of the routes and the path module accessing a portion of the plurality of data sets to determine energy costs of for at least one of the paths,
the control module generating commands to navigate to the vehicle along the selected path within the selected route.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of data sets includes a plurality of look-up tables.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the routing module determines the energy costs for each route based on energy consumption costs for the particular route.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the energy consumption costs are generated from a speed profile and one of the plurality of look-up tables
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the routing module determines the energy costs for each route based on energy charging costs for the particular route.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the energy charging costs is determined from the vehicle battery state of charge, the predicted energy loss for a particular route of the plurality of routes, and availability of charging stations along a particular route of the plurality of routes.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the routing module determines the energy costs for each route based on elevation costs for the particular route.
8 The system of claim 7, wherein the elevation cost is based on the predicted regeneration achieved during downhill for the particular route of the plurality of routes, the state of charge of the vehicle battery,
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the energy cost of each path is determined based on the energy efficiency of one or more components of the drivetrain and a speed profile for the vehicle.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the energy efficiency of the drivetrain component is a function of the vehicle speed.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more components include a battery, power inventor, motor, and transmission.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle is an electric vehicle.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the vehicle includes a range extender system, the range extender system including a combustion engine, the route selected based on energy costs associated at least in part on the combustion engine of the range extender, and the path selected based on energy costs associated at least in part on the combustion engine of the range extender.
14. A system for automatically navigating an electric vehicle having a range extender system based on energy costs of a route and a path along the route, comprising:
a data processing system comprising one or more processors, memory, a planning module, and a control module, the planning module including:
a routing module that selects a route from a plurality of routes for the electric vehicle based at least in part on the energy costs of each of the plurality of routes, at least a portion of the energy costs for each route associated with the range extender system, the route having an origin and a destination, the range extender having a combustion engine, and
a path module that determines a path from a plurality of paths for a subsection of the route based at least on energy costs of each of the plurality of paths, at least a portion of the energy costs for each route associated with the range extender system,
the control module generating commands to navigate to the vehicle along the selected path within the selected route.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the energy cost of each route is determined from one or more of an energy consumption from the electric vehicle drivetrain and the range extender combustion engine, a charging cost of the electric vehicle battery and fueling cost of the combustion engine, an elevation cost, and an emission cost of the combustion engine for each route.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the energy cost of each path is determined by:
a speed profile of the electric vehicle for the path and the energy efficiency of one or more of a plurality of electric vehicle drivetrain components; and
the speed profile of the electric vehicle for the path and the energy efficiency of one or more of a range extender system combustion engine.
17. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium having embodied thereon a program, the program being executable by a processor to perform a method for automatically navigating an electric vehicle based on energy costs of a route and a path along the route, the method comprising:
determining an energy cost for an electric vehicle to navigate each of a plurality of routes between an origin and a destination;
selecting a route based at least in part on the energy cost for each route;
determining an energy cost for the electric vehicle for each of a plurality of paths, each of the plurality of paths within the route;
selecting a path based at least in part on the energy loss for each path;
generating a command for the electric vehicle to navigate along the selected path within the selected route; and
navigating the electric vehicle based on the selected path and route.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein
determining an energy cost for a route includes determining at least one of an energy consumed by the electric vehicle along the route, a charging cost of each route, and an elevation cost the energy cost of each path.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein
determining an energy loss for a path includes determining an energy efficiency of one or more electric vehicle drivetrain components at a predicted speed of the electric vehicle in the path.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the electric vehicle includes a range extender system with a combustion engine,
wherein determining an energy cost for a route includes determining energy costs for the combustion engine of the range extender program and adding the energy cost for the combustion engine to the energy costs for the remainder of the electric vehicle, and
wherein determining an energy cost for a path includes determining an energy loss due to the combustion engine of the range extender program and adding the energy loss for the combustion engine to the energy loss for the remainder of the electric vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
