<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60L3/04,H02H3/087,H02J1/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EATON INTELLIGENT POWER
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHMITZ, GERD
LI JUN
WANG HAO
PIYABONGKARN, DAMRONGRIT
ZHANG ZHE
MEISSNER, JOHANNES
SULLIVAN, MICHAEL
LANG, VOLKER
ROESNER, NORBERT
GERVING, KARSTEN
BAUSCH, CHRISTOPH
TRUBLOWSKI JOHN
D'AMICO PAOLO
GREEN, JACOB
ZHU YE
CHAVAN, AMIT
LI HAN
SCHROEDER, KAI
WANG MENG
LUO CHENG
DOUGLASS, ROBERT
DUKARIC, DENNIS
FISHER, BRANDON
FRIEDRICHSEN, LUTZ
GUPTA, MADHAVI
PATIL, DEVENDRA
ZURFACE, AUSTIN
OUWENGA, DANIEL
WAN CHENG
QIAN, LEWEI
KIM, HONG RAE
MOLITOR, UTE
OTTE, JULIA
DAVID, JAMES
MENSCH, MARTIN
GRIFFITHS, JUSTIN
HAYLOCK, MATT
URIAN, JEFF
SHAH, JALPA
RAMSEYER, NILES
PHILIPSOHN, MADELINE
VÖLLMAR, GUIDO
MADANE, Mayura
DEY, Somdut
TEKALUR, Srinivasan
SONI, Asheesh
HINGANGAVE, Anvaya
TELIKEPALLI, Kumar
SURASE, Nilesh
HERRANZ, Patrick
KHAN, Toseed
MODI, Rajen
SHETTY, Ritika
KANDRU, Chakravarthi
TRIPATHY, Shalini
JIANG, Tianyang
BARANWAL, Rohit
CARROLL, Jason
GALLET, Rene
CHEN, Jiong
JIN, Dongxin
MEHTA, Nilay
SUDA, Bharath
SOLVANDE, Atul
DENG, Yueyue
QURESHI, Sadiya
VALENCIA FRITSCH, Laura
HOREJS, Miroslav
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72611572
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POWER DISTRIBUTION AND CIRCUIT PROTECTION FOR A MOBILE APPLICATION HAVING A HIGH EFFICIENCY INVERTER
</title>

<abstract>
A power electronics assembly for a mobile application includes a first power electronics component selectively coupled to a high source on a first side and coupled to a high voltage battery on a second side, a second power electronics component selectively coupled to one of a low load or a low voltage battery on a first side and coupled to the high voltage battery on a second side; and a controller, including an operating mode circuit structured to determine a discharge operating mode for the mobile application, a power electronics configuration circuit structured to provide a switch state value for the first power electronics component and the second power electronics component in response to the discharge operating mode, and wherein the first power electronics component and the second power electronics component are responsive to the switch state value to coupled selected ones of the high source, low load, and low voltage battery to the high voltage battery.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for power distribution in a mobile electric application, comprising:
a high voltage energy storage device;
a low voltage energy storage device;
an alternating current (AC) external interface configured to selectively couple a plurality of AC
load/source components, wherein the AC external interface comprises a switch having a first position that electrically couples the plurality of AC load/source components to the high voltage energy storage device, and a second position that electrically isolates the plurality of AC load/source components from the high voltage energy storage device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of AC load/source components comprise a grid connection and an AC load connection.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the grid connection comprises a charging connection.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the grid connection comprises a 3-phase AC connection.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein the AC load connection comprises a consumer AC access.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the switch in the second position electrically couples the high voltage energy storage device to the low voltage energy storage device.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the second position of the switch comprises a closed position.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the closed position of the switch bypasses a coupling inductor between the high voltage energy storage device and the AC external interface.
9. A method, comprising:
operating a mobile electric application having a high voltage energy storage device, a low voltage energy storage device, and an alternating current (AC) external interface;
selectively operating a switch between:
a first position that electrically couples the high voltage energy storage device to the AC external
interface and electrically isolates the high voltage energy storage device from the low voltage energy storage device; and
a second position that electrically couples the high voltage energy storage device to the low voltage energy storage device and electrically isolates the high voltage energy storage device from the AC external interface.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the operating comprises a driving mode by selectively operating the switch to the first position, and controlling direct current DC-DC conversion between the high voltage energy storage device and the low voltage energy storage device.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising controlling the DC-DC conversion by powering a controller with the high voltage energy storage device.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising controlling the DC-DC conversion by powering a controller with the low voltage energy storage device.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the operating comprises a charging mode by selectively operating the switch to the second position, and controlling charging from the AC external interface to the high voltage energy storage device.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising controlling the charging by powering a controller with the low voltage energy storage device.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising controlling the charging by pausing the charging in response to the low voltage energy storage device having a state-of-charge below a threshold state-of-charge, operating the switch in the second position to charge the low voltage energy storage device, and returning to the charging in response to the low voltage energy storage device having a state-of-charge exceeding a second threshold state-of-charge.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein the operating, wherein the operating comprises a discharging mode by selectively operating the switch to the second position, and controlling discharging from the high voltage energy storage device to the AC external interface.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising controlling the discharging by synchronizing the discharging to a grid coupled to the AC external interface.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising controlling the discharging by providing power to at least one of a grid or an AC load coupled to the AC external interface.
19. A controller, comprising:
a mobile application circuit structured to interpret an electrical distribution mode;
a distribution switch circuit structured to provide a switch position command in response to the electrical distribution mode; and
a switch configured to be responsive to the switch position command, wherein the switch comprises: a first position that electrically couples a high voltage energy storage device to an AC external interface and electrically isolates the high voltage energy storage device from a low voltage energy storage device; and
a second position that electrically couples the high voltage energy storage device to the low voltage energy storage device and electrically isolates the high voltage energy storage device from the AC external interface.
20. The controller of claim 19, wherein the electrical distribution mode comprises at least one mode selected from the modes consisting of: a discharging mode providing power from the high voltage energy storage device to the AC external interface; a charging mode providing power from the AC external interface to the high voltage energy storage device; and a low voltage charging mode providing power from the high voltage energy storage device to the low voltage energy storage device.
21. The controller of claim 19, wherein the electrical distribution mode comprises a discharging mode
providing power from the high voltage energy storage device to the AC electrical interface, the controller further comprising a power configuration circuit structured to synchronize power provided from the high voltage energy storage device with a grid electrically coupled to the AC external interface.
22. A system, comprising:
a vehicle comprising a motive electrical power path; and
a power distribution unit having a motive current protection circuit disposed in the motive electrical power path, the motive current protection circuit including a fuse, wherein the fuse comprises a plurality of printed restrictive conductive elements defining repeating geometry gaps.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the repeating geometry gaps comprise a hexagonal gaps.
24. The system of claim 22, wherein the repeating geometry gaps comprise circular gaps.
25. The system of claim 22, wherein the repeating geometry gaps comprise elliptical gaps.
26. The system of claim 22, wherein the repeating geometry gaps comprise slot gaps.
27. The system of claim 22, wherein the fuse further comprises a ceramic substrate.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein the fuse further comprises a printed glass layer interposed between the substrate and the plurality of printed restrictive conductive elements.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the printed glass layer comprises a diffusion layer with each of the
plurality of printed restrictive conductive elements.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein the printed glass layer comprises a dielectric material.
31. The system of claim 22, wherein the plurality of printed restrictive conductive elements comprise
electrically separated elements, the fuse further comprising a plurality of conductive jumper elements between adjacent ones of the electrically separated elements.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein the plurality of conductive jumper elements comprise an integrated layer.
33. A printed fuse element, comprising:
a plurality of printed restrictive conductive elements defining repeating geometry gaps;
a substrate layer; and
a glass layer interposed between the plurality of printed restrictive conductive elements and the substrate layer.
34. The printed fuse of claim 33, wherein the substrate layer comprises a ceramic layer.
35. The printed fuse of claim 34, wherein the glass layer comprises a printed glass layer.
36. The printed fuse of claim 35, wherein the glass layer further comprises a plurality of discrete elements, each of the plurality of discrete elements associated with a corresponding one of the plurality of printed restrictive conductive elements.
37. The printed fuse of claim 36, wherein the printed glass layer comprises a diffusion layer with each of the plurality of printed restrictive conductive elements.
38. The printed fuse of claim 33, further comprising:
wherein the glass layer is positioned on a first side of the substrate layer;
a second plurality of printed restrictive conductive elements defining repeating geometry gaps; and a second glass layer interposed between the second plurality of printed restrictive conductive elements defining repeating geometry gaps on a second side of the substrate layer.
39. A method, comprising:
printing a plurality of glass elements onto a substrate layer;
printing a restrictive conductive layer onto the plurality of glass elements, the printed restrictive
conductive layer comprising a plurality of restriction elements, each of the plurality of restriction elements corresponding to one of the plurality of glass elements; and
soldering the printed restrictive conductive layer to the plurality of glass elements.
40. The method of claim 39, further comprising brazing a conductive bridging layer to the printed restrictive conductive layer.
41. The method of claim 40, further comprising removing support bridge elements from the conductive
bridging layer after the brazing.
42. The method of claim 40, further comprising diffusing the printed restrictive conductive layer into the plurality of glass elements.
43. The method of claim 39, wherein applying the printed restrictive conductive layer comprises providing a continuous layer having a variable thickness.
44. The method of claim 43, further comprising applying at least one additional printed conductive layer, thereby applying a selected conductive capacity trajectory to the printed fuse.
45. The method of claim 39, wherein printing the restrictive conductive layer comprises providing discrete, separated restriction elements.
46. The method of claim 39, further comprising diffusing at least a portion of the each of the plurality of
restriction elements into each corresponding one of the plurality of glass elements.
47. A system, comprising:
a vehicle comprising a motive electrical power path; and
a power distribution unit having a motive current protection circuit disposed in the motive electrical power path, the motive current protection circuit including a fuse, wherein the fuse comprises a laminate restrictive conductive layer and a laminate structural layer.
48. The system of claim 47, wherein the fuse further comprises a laminate conductive layer.
49. The system of claim 47, wherein the fuse further comprises a laminate thermal layer having an enhanced thermal conductivity.
50. The system of claim 47, wherein the laminate structural layer comprises a material having an enhanced thermal conductivity.
51. The system of claim 47, wherein the laminate restrictive conductive layer further comprises a foil layer.
52. The system of claim 47, wherein the laminate restrictive conductive layer comprises a printed layer.
53. The system of claim 47, wherein the laminate restrictive conductive layer comprises a plurality of separated restriction elements.
54. The system of claim 53, further comprising a plurality of conductive bridging elements electrically coupling adjacent ones of the plurality of separated restriction elements.
55. The system of claim 53, wherein the laminate structural layer comprises a glass layer, and wherein the laminate restrictive conductive layer is soldered to the glass layer.
56. The system of claim 55, further comprising a substrate layer, and wherein the glass layer is mounted on the substrate layer.
57. The system of claim 56, wherein the glass layer is mounted on a first side of the substrate layer, the fuse further comprising a second glass layer mounted on a second side of the substrate layer, and a second laminate restrictive conductive layer soldered to the second glass layer.
58. A laminated fuse element, comprising:
a substrate layer;
a glass layer mounted on the substrate layer; and
a laminated restrictive conductive layer soldered to the glass layer.
59. The laminated fuse element of claim 58, further comprising wherein the laminate restrictive conductive layer comprises a plurality of separated restriction elements.
60. The laminated fuse element of claim 59, further comprising a plurality of conductive bridging elements electrically coupling adjacent ones of the plurality of separated restriction elements.
61. The laminated fuse element of claim 60, wherein the laminate restrictive conductive layer comprises a multilayer structure having a variable thickness.
62. The laminated fuse element of claim 60, wherein the laminate restrictive conductive layer comprises a layer defining circular gaps.
63. The laminated fuse element of claim 60, wherein the laminate restrictive conductive layer comprises a layer defining hexagonal gaps.
64. The laminated fuse element of claim 60, wherein the laminate restrictive conductive layer comprises a layer defining slot gaps.
65. A method, comprising:
printing a plurality of glass elements onto a substrate layer;
applying a laminate restrictive conductive layer to the plurality of glass elements, the laminate restrictive conductive layer comprising a plurality of restriction elements, each of the plurality of restriction elements corresponding to one of the plurality of glass elements; and
soldering the laminate restrictive conductive layer to the plurality of glass elements.
66. The method of claim 65, further comprising brazing a conductive bridging layer to the laminate restrictive conductive layer.
67. The method of claim 66, further comprising removing support bridge elements from the conductive
bridging layer after the brazing.
68. The method of claim 66, further comprising diffusing the laminate restrictive conductive layer into the plurality of glass elements.
69. The method of claim 65, wherein applying the laminate restrictive conductive layer comprises providing a continuous layer having a variable thickness.
70. The method of claim 69, further comprising applying at least one additional conductive layer, thereby applying a selected conductive capacity trajectory to the printed fuse.
71. The method of claim 65, wherein applying the laminate restrictive conductive layer comprises providing discrete, separated restriction elements.
72. A system, comprising:
an inverter comprising a plurality of transistor drivers;
a cooling plate thermally coupled to each of the plurality of transistor drivers and a direct current (DC) capacitor; and
a controller, comprising:
a power demand circuit structured to interpret a power demand value for a mobile application including the inverter; and
a load balancing circuit structured to provide driver command values in response to the power demand value.
73. The system of claim 72, wherein the load balancing circuit is further structured to provide the driver
command values to at least partially distribute a power throughput of the plurality of transistor drivers.
74. The system of claim 72, wherein the load balancing circuit is further structured to provide the driver command values to at least partially distribute thermal energy generation of the plurality of transistor drivers.
75. The system of claim 72, wherein the load balancing circuit is further structured to provide the driver
command values in response to a temperature value corresponding to each of the plurality of transistor drivers.
76. The system of claim 72, wherein the load balancing circuit is further structured to provide the driver
command values in response to a cooling capacity of the cooling plate.
77. The system of claim 72, wherein the load balancing circuit is further structured to provide the driver
command values such that a first one of the plurality of transistor drivers provides a voltage contribution to a first phase of a motive power input at a first time, and provides a voltage contribution to a second phase of the motive power input at a second time.
78. The system of claim 72, wherein at least two of plurality of transistor drivers are electrically coupled to a phase of a motive power input in parallel.
79. The system of claim 72, wherein the plurality of transistor drivers comprise insulated-gate bipolar
transistors (IGBTs).
80. The system of claim 72, wherein the plurality of transistor drivers comprise wide bandgap (WBG)
transistors.
81. The system of claim 72, wherein the plurality of transistor drivers comprise metal oxide semi-conductor field-effect transistors (MOSFETs).
82. The system of claim 72, wherein the plurality of transistor drivers are distributed geometrically about the DC capacitor.
83. The system of claim 82, wherein each of the plurality of transistor drivers is thermally coupled to a
corresponding cooling extension member, each cooling extension member defining a coolant path therethrough that is fluidly coupled to a main cooling path of the cooling plate.
84. The system of claim 83, further comprising configuring the main cooling path and each of the
corresponding cooling extension members to provide a predetermined coolant distribution of the cooling plate.
85. The system of claim 84, wherein the predetermined coolant distribution comprises at least one of:
substantially equal coolant distribution, or a threshold coolant distribution for each of the cooling extension members.
86. The system of claim 84, wherein the load balancing circuit is further structured to provide driver command values in response to the predetermined coolant distribution of the cooling plate.
87. A method, comprising:
determining a power demand profile for a vehicle;
determining a transistor driver configuration for an inverter of the vehicle in response to the power demand profile; and
determining a cooling configuration for the inverter of the vehicle in response to the power demand profile and the transistor driver configuration.
88. The method of claim 87, wherein determining the transistor driver configuration comprises determining at least one of: a number of transistor drivers, a transistor driver coupling arrangement, a transistor driver geometry arrangement with respect to a direct current (DC) capacitor, and determining a load balancing scheme for a number of transistor drivers.
89. The method of claim 88, further comprising determining the cooling configuration as an air cooled
configuration.
90. The method of claim 88, further comprising determining the cooling configuration as a coolant plate.
91. The method of claim 90, further comprising determining the cooling configuration by determining at least one of: a cooling extension member configuration, a coolant flow rate capacity, or a predetermined coolant distribution of the cooling plate.
92. The method of claim 87, further comprising determining a number of transistor drivers in response to a number of motive power motors and a number of motor phases corresponding to each of the number of motive power motors.
93. The method of claim 92, further comprising determining the number of transistor drivers further in response to at least one of a motive power voltage or a motive power throughput description.
94. The method of claim 93, further comprising determining a transistor driver coupling arrangement in
response to the number of transistor drivers, the number of motive power motors, the number of motor phases corresponding to each of the number of motive power motors, the motive power voltage, or the motive power throughput description.
95. The method of claim 93, further comprising determining the cooling configuration as an air cooled
configuration in response to at least one of: an excess transistor driver capacity, a coolant flow rate capacity, a predetermined coolant distribution of a cooling plate, or a load balancing scheme for the vehicle.
96. The method of claim 87, further comprising determining the cooling configuration in response to a
geometric footprint description.
97. The method of claim 87, further comprising determining the cooling configuration in response to an
integration footprint description.
98. A mobile application, comprising:
a motive power circuit, the motive power circuit comprising a power storage device, a power distribution unit (PDU), and an electrical load selectively electrically coupled through a power bus; wherein the PDU is electrically interposed between the power storage device and the electrical load; and
wherein the PDU and the power storage device are mounted within a common housing and cooled by a shared coolant system.
99. The mobile application of claim 98, wherein the shared coolant system comprises at least one coolant line.
100. The mobile application of claim 99, wherein the PDU and the power storage device share a single coolant line.
101. The mobile application of claim 100, wherein the shared coolant system is thermally coupled to the PDU and the power storage device in a serial arrangement.
102. The mobile application of claim 100, wherein the shared coolant system is thermally coupled to the PDU and the power storage device in a parallel arrangement.
103. The mobile application of claim 100, wherein the PDU comprises at least one laminated circuit board thermally coupled to the single coolant line.
104. The mobile application of claim 98, further comprising a breaker/relay mounted within the common housing and positioned on one of a high side and a low side of the power storage device; and
wherein the breaker/relay comprises:
a fixed contact electrically coupled to the power bus;
a movable contact selectively electrically coupled to the fixed contact, and wherein the movable contact allows power flow through the power bus when electrically coupled to the fixed contact, and prevents power flow through the power bus when not electrically coupled to the fixed contact; and an armature operationally coupled to the movable contact, such that the armature in a first position prevents electrical coupling between the movable contact and the fixed contact, and the armature in a second position allows electrical coupling between the movable contact and the fixed contact; and a first biasing member biasing the armature into one of the first position or the second position.
105. The mobile application of claim 104, wherein the breaker/relay further comprises a contact force spring operationally interposed between the armature and the movable contact, such that in response to the armature being in the second position, the contact force spring is at least partially compressed, and wherein the contact force spring is configured such that a Lorentz force acting between the fixed contact and the movable contact further compresses the contact force spring in response to a selected current value.
106. The mobile application of claim 105, wherein the selected current value is greater than a rated current value for at least one of the fixed contact or the movable contact.
107. The mobile application of claim 106, further comprising a controller configured to provide an open command in response to a current value of the power bus exceeding a second selected current value, and wherein the armature is responsive to the open command to move toward the first position.
108. The mobile application of claim 107, wherein the second selected current value is lower than the selected current value.
109. The mobile application of claim 108, wherein the PDU further comprises a fuse interposed in the motive power circuit, and wherein the selected current value is lower than a fuse rated current value.
110. A power distribution and storage device, comprising:
a housing;
a power storage device; and
a power distribution unit (PDU),
wherein the power distribution unit (PDU) is electrically interposed between the power storage device and an electrical load output port mounted to the housing,
wherein the PDU and the power storage device are mounted within the housing and cooled by a shared coolant system.
111. The power distribution and storage device of claim 110, wherein the shared coolant system comprises at least one coolant line.
112. The power distribution and storage device of claim 111, wherein the PDU and the power storage device share a single coolant line.
113. The power distribution and storage device of claim 112, wherein the PDU comprises at least one laminated circuit board thermally coupled to the single coolant line.
114. The power distribution and storage device of claim 110, further comprising a breaker/relay mounted within the housing and positioned on one of a high side and a low side of the power storage device, and wherein the breaker/relay comprises a physical response portion configured to open a motive power circuit in response to a current of the motive power circuit exceeding a selected current value, and to open the motive power circuit in response to an open command.
115. A mobile application having an active contactor, comprising:
a motive power circuit selectively coupling a power storage device to a motive power load;
a contactor interposed between the power storage device and the motive power load, wherein the
contactor in a first position allows power to flow between the power storage device and the motive power load, and wherein the contactor in a second position opens the motive power circuit; and a controller, comprising:
a mobile application operating condition circuit structured to interpret an operating condition of the mobile application;
a contactor threshold circuit structured to determine a contactor operating threshold value in response to the operating condition of the mobile application; and
a contactor command circuit structured to provide a contactor open command in response to a current value through the motive power circuit and the contactor operating threshold value; and
wherein the contactor is responsive to the contactor open command.
116. The mobile application of claim 115, wherein the contactor further comprises:
a fixed contact and a moveable contact, wherein a position of the moveable contact defines whether the contactor is in the first position or the second position;
an armature operationally coupled to the moveable contact, wherein the armature is responsive to the contactor open command; and
a biasing member that biases the armature into one of the first position or the second position.
117. The mobile application of claim 116, wherein the biasing member applies a closing biasing force when the contactor is in the first position, such that the contactor is configured to open due to Lorentz forces at a selected current value through the motive power circuit.
118. The mobile application of claim 116, wherein the contactor operating threshold value is lower than the selected current value.
119. The mobile application of claim 118, further comprising a fuse electrically coupled to the contactor in a series arrangement, and wherein the contactor operating threshold value is higher than a fuse current rating of the fuse.
120. The mobile application of claim 115, wherein the operating condition of the mobile application comprises at least one condition selected from the conditions consisting of:
a limp-home operating condition;
a performance power operating condition;
an emergency power operating condition; a de-rated operating condition;
a charging operating condition;
a quick-charging operating condition;
an operator request condition;
an off nominal operating condition;
an emergency shutdown command;
a service event indicator;
a maintenance event indicator;
an accident indicator;
a vehicle controller request; and
a device protection request.
121. The mobile application of claim 116, wherein the contactor further comprises a plurality of splitter plates positioned in proximity to the fixed contact.
122. The mobile application of claim 121, further comprising a permanent magnet at least partially surrounding the plurality of splitter plates.
123. The mobile application of claim 115, wherein the contactor comprises a solid-state switch.
124. The mobile application of claim 123, further comprising a physical contactor electrically coupled to the solid-state switch in series, and wherein the contactor command circuit is further structured to close the physical contactor before closing the solid-state switch, and to open the physical contactor after opening the solid-state switch.
125. The mobile application of claim 115, wherein the operating condition of the mobile application comprises at least one condition selected from the conditions consisting of:
a current value of the motive power circuit;
a current-time value of the motive power circuit;
a power value of the motive power circuit;
a voltage value of the motive power circuit;
a rate of change of any of the foregoing;
an accumulation of any of the foregoing; and
a combination of any two or more of the foregoing.
126. The mobile application of claim 125, wherein the contactor threshold circuit is further structured to adjust the contactor operating threshold value in response to at least one further operating condition of the mobile application.
127. The mobile application of claim 126, wherein the at least one further operating condition of the mobile application includes at least one operating condition selected from the operating conditions consisting of: a limp-home operating condition;
a performance power operating condition;
an emergency power operating condition;
a de-rated operating condition;
a charging operating condition;
a quick-charging operating condition; an operator request condition;
an off nominal operating condition;
an emergency shutdown command;
a service event indicator;
a maintenance event indicator;
an accident indicator;
a vehicle controller request; and
a device protection request.
128. A method, comprising:
interpreting an operating condition of a mobile application having a motive power circuit;
determining a contactor opening threshold value in response to the operating condition of the mobile
application; and
operating a contactor between a first closed position and a second open position in response to a current value of the motive power circuit and the contactor opening threshold value.
129. The method of claim 128, wherein operating the contactor between the first closed position and the second open position comprises moving a moveable contact away from or toward a fixed contact.
130. The method of claim 129, wherein moving the moveable contact toward the fixed contact further
comprises applying a closing biasing force such that the contactor is configured to open due to Lorentz forces at a selected current value through the motive power circuit.
131. The method of claim 130, wherein the contactor opening threshold value is lower than the selected current value.
132. The method of claim 128, wherein interpreting the operating condition of the mobile application further comprises determining at least one condition selected from the conditions consisting of:
a limp-home operating condition;
a charging operating condition; and
a quick-charging operating condition.
133. The method of claim 128, further comprising quenching an arc within the contactor in response to
operating the contactor to the second open position.
134. The method of claim 128, wherein operating the contactor to the first closed position comprises, in order: closing a physical contactor, and then closing a solid-state switch.
135. The method of claim 128, wherein operating the contactor to the second open position comprises, in order: opening a solid-state switch, and then opening a physical contactor.
136. A mobile application having an active contactor, comprising:
a motive power circuit selectively coupling a power storage device to a motive power load;
a contactor interposed between the power storage device and the motive power load, wherein the
contactor in a first position allows power to flow between the power storage device and the motive power load, and wherein the contactor in a second position opens the motive power circuit; and a controller, comprising:
a mobile application operating condition circuit structured to interpret a time-current value corresponding to the motive power load; a contactor threshold circuit structured to adjust a contactor operating threshold value in response to the time-current value of the mobile application; and
a contactor command circuit structured to provide a contactor open command in response to a current value through the motive power circuit and the contactor operating threshold value; and
wherein the contactor is responsive to the contactor open command.
137. The mobile application of claim 136, wherein the contactor further comprises:
a fixed contact and a moveable contact, wherein a position of the moveable contact defines whether the contactor is in the first position or the second position;
an armature operationally coupled to the moveable contact, wherein the armature is responsive to the contactor open command; and
a biasing member that biases the armature into one of the first position or the second position.
138. The mobile application of claim 137, wherein the biasing member applies a closing biasing force when the contactor is in the first position, such that the contactor is configured to open due to Lorentz forces at a selected current value through the motive power circuit.
139. The mobile application of claim 137, wherein the contactor operating threshold value is lower than the selected current value.
140. The mobile application of claim 139, further comprising a fuse electrically coupled to the contactor in a series arrangement, and wherein the contactor operating threshold value is higher than a fuse current rating of the fuse.
141. The mobile application of claim 136, wherein the time-current value of the mobile application comprises at least one value selected from the values consisting of:
a time-current area above a current threshold value;
a time-current area above a current threshold trajectory;
a time-current rate of change value; and
a time-current second derivative value.
142. The mobile application of claim 136, wherein the mobile application operating condition circuit is further structured to interpret an operating condition of the mobile application, and wherein the contactor threshold circuit is further structured to adjust the contactor opening threshold value in response to the operating condition of the mobile application.
143. The mobile application of claim 142, wherein the operating condition of the mobile application comprises at least one condition selected from the conditions consisting of:
a limp-home operating condition;
an emergency power operating condition;
a charging operating condition;
a quick-charging operating condition;
a service event indicator;
a maintenance event indicator;
a vehicle controller request; and
a device protection request.
144. The mobile application of claim 142, wherein the operating condition of the mobile application comprises at least one condition selected from the conditions consisting of:
a performance power operating condition;
a de-rated operating condition;
an operator request condition;
an off nominal operating condition;
an emergency shutdown command; and
an accident indicator.
145. The mobile application of claim 137, wherein the contactor further comprises a plurality of splitter plates positioned in proximity to the fixed contact.
146. The mobile application of claim 145, further comprising a permanent magnet at least partially surrounding the plurality of splitter plates.
147. The mobile application of claim 137, wherein the contactor comprises a solid-state switch.
148. The mobile application of claim 147, further comprising a physical contactor electrically coupled to the solid-state switch in series, and wherein the contactor command circuit is further structured to open the physical contactor after opening the solid-state switch.
149. The mobile application of claim 148, wherein the contactor command circuit is further structured to close the physical contactor before closing the solid-state switch.
150. A method, comprising:
interpreting time-current value of a mobile application having a motive power circuit;
determining a contactor opening threshold value in response to the time-current value of the mobile application; and
operating a contactor between a first closed position and a second open position in response to a current value of the motive power circuit and the contactor opening threshold value.
151. The method of claim 150, wherein operating the contactor between the first closed position and the second open position comprises moving a moveable contact away from or toward a fixed contact.
152. The method of claim 151, wherein moving the moveable contact toward the fixed contact further
comprises applying a closing biasing force such that the contactor is configured to open due to Lorentz forces at a selected current value through the motive power circuit.
153. The method of claim 152, wherein the contactor opening threshold value is lower than the selected current value.
154. The method of claim 150, wherein interpreting the time-current value of the mobile application further comprises determining at least one value selected from the values consisting of:
a time-current area above a current threshold value;
a time-current area above a current threshold trajectory;
a time-current rate of change value; and
a time-current second derivative value.
155. The method of claim 150, further comprising interpreting an operating condition of the mobile application, and adjusting the contactor opening threshold value in response to the operating condition of the mobile application.
156. The method of claim 155, wherein the operating condition of the mobile application comprises at least one condition selected from the conditions consisting of:
a limp-home operating condition;
an emergency power operating condition;
a charging operating condition;
a quick-charging operating condition;
a service event indicator;
a maintenance event indicator;
a vehicle controller request; and
a device protection request.
157. The method of claim 150, further comprising quenching an arc within the contactor in response to
operating the contactor to the second open position.
158. The method of claim 150, wherein operating the contactor to the first closed position comprises, in order: closing a physical contactor, and then closing a solid-state switch.
159. The method of claim 150, wherein operating the contactor to the second open position comprises, in order: opening a solid-state switch, and then opening a physical contactor.
160. The method of claim 150, interpreting the time-current value of the mobile application further comprises determining an index based on at least one value selected from the values consisting of: a time current profile of a power load; a time-current trajectory of a power load; a time-current area value of a power load; and a rate of change of a current value through a power load.
161. A mobile application having an active contactor, comprising:
a motive power circuit selectively coupling a power storage device to a motive power load;
a contactor interposed between the power storage device and the motive power load, wherein the
contactor in a first position allows power to flow between the power storage device and the motive power load, and wherein the contactor in a second position opens the motive power circuit; and a controller, comprising:
a mobile application operating condition circuit structured to interpret an operating condition of the mobile application based on at least one of an electrical condition of the motive power circuit or an operator input value;
a contactor threshold circuit structured to determine a contactor operating threshold value in response to the operating condition of the mobile application; and
a contactor command circuit structured to provide a contactor open command in response to a current value through the motive power circuit and the contactor operating threshold value; and
wherein the contactor is responsive to the contactor open command.
162. The mobile application of claim 161, wherein the contactor further comprises:
a fixed contact and a moveable contact, wherein a position of the moveable contact defines whether the contactor is in the first position or the second position;
an armature operationally coupled to the moveable contact, wherein the armature is responsive to the contactor open command; and a biasing member that biases the armature into one of the first position or the second position.
163. The mobile application of claim 162, wherein the biasing member applies a closing biasing force when the contactor is in the first position, such that the contactor is configured to open due to Lorentz forces at a selected current value through the motive power circuit.
164. The mobile application of claim 162, wherein the contactor operating threshold value is lower than the selected current value.
165. The mobile application of claim 164, further comprising a fuse electrically coupled to the contactor in a series arrangement, and wherein the contactor operating threshold value is higher than a fuse current rating of the fuse.
166. The mobile application of claim 161, wherein the at least one of the electrical condition of the motive power circuit or the operator input value comprises at least one condition selected from the conditions consisting of:
an operator torque request;
an operator power request;
an operator control input value;
a power throughput of the motive power circuit;
a current throughput of the motive power circuit;
a vehicle result value of the motive application;
a rate of change of any one or more of the foregoing; and
an accumulation of any one or more of the foregoing.
167. The mobile application of claim 161, wherein the mobile application operating condition circuit is further structured to interpret a vehicle result value of the motive application, and wherein the contactor threshold circuit is further structured to adjust the contactor operating threshold value in response to a correlation between an operator control input value and the vehicle result value.
168. The mobile application of claim 167, wherein the vehicle result value comprises at least one value selected from the values consisting of:
a vehicle speed value;
a load shaft speed value; and
a torque achieved value.
169. The mobile application of claim 167, wherein the operator control input value comprises at least one value selected from the values consisting of:
a torque request value;
a speed request value;
a power request value;
a performance state request value; and
a set point adjustment value.
170. The mobile application of claim 162, wherein the contactor further comprises a plurality of splitter plates positioned in proximity to the fixed contact.
171. The mobile application of claim 170, further comprising a permanent magnet at least partially surrounding the plurality of splitter plates.
172. The mobile application of claim 161, wherein the contactor comprises a solid-state switch.
173. The mobile application of claim 172, further comprising a physical contactor electrically coupled to the solid-state switch in series, and wherein the contactor command circuit is further structured to close the physical contactor before closing the solid-state switch, and to open the physical contactor after opening the solid-state switch.
174. The mobile application of claim 161, wherein the mobile application operating condition circuit is further structured to interpret a second operating condition of the mobile application, and wherein the contactor threshold circuit is further structured to adjust the contactor opening threshold value in response to the second operating condition of the mobile application.
175. The mobile application of claim 174, wherein the second operating condition of the mobile application comprises at least one condition selected from the conditions consisting of:
a limp-home operating condition;
an emergency power operating condition;
a charging operating condition;
a quick-charging operating condition;
a service event indicator;
a maintenance event indicator;
a vehicle controller request; and
a device protection request.
176. The mobile application of claim 174, wherein the second operating condition of the mobile application comprises at least one condition selected from the conditions consisting of:
a performance power operating condition;
a de-rated operating condition;
an operator request condition;
an off nominal operating condition;
an emergency shutdown command; and
an accident indicator.
177. A method, comprising:
interpreting an operating condition of a mobile application based on at least one of an electrical condition of a motive power circuit of the mobile application or an operator input value;
determining a contactor opening threshold value in response to the operating condition of the mobile application; and
operating a contactor between a first closed position and a second open position in response to a current value of the motive power circuit and the contactor opening threshold value.
178. The method of claim 177, wherein operating the contactor between the first closed position and the second open position comprises moving a moveable contact away from or toward a fixed contact.
179. The method of claim 178, wherein moving the moveable contact toward the fixed contact further
comprises applying a closing biasing force such that the contactor is configured to open due to Lorentz forces at a selected current value through the motive power circuit.
180. The method of claim 179, wherein the contactor opening threshold value is lower than the selected current value.
181. The method of claim 177, wherein the at least one of the electrical condition of the motive power circuit or the operator input value comprises at least one condition selected from the conditions consisting of:
an operator torque request;
an operator power request;
an operator control input value;
a power throughput of the motive power circuit;
a current throughput of the motive power circuit;
a vehicle result value of the motive application;
a rate of change of any one or more of the foregoing; and
an accumulation of any one or more of the foregoing.
182. The method of claim 177, further comprising interpreting a vehicle result value of the motive application, and adjusting the contactor operating threshold value in response to a correlation between an operator control input value and the vehicle result value.
183. The method of claim 182, wherein the vehicle result value comprises at least one value selected from the values consisting of:
a vehicle speed value;
a load shaft speed value; and
a torque achieved value.
184. The method of claim 182, wherein the operator control input value comprises at least one value selected from the values consisting of:
a torque request value;
a speed request value;
a power request value;
a performance state request value; and
a set point adjustment value.
185. The method of claim 177, further comprising interpreting a second operating condition of the mobile application, and adjusting the contactor opening threshold value in response to the operating condition of the mobile application.
186. The method of claim 185, wherein the second operating condition of the mobile application comprises at least one condition selected from the conditions consisting of:
a limp-home operating condition;
an emergency power operating condition;
a charging operating condition;
a quick-charging operating condition;
a service event indicator;
a maintenance event indicator;
a vehicle controller request; and
a device protection request.
187. The method of claim 177, further comprising quenching an arc within the contactor in response to operating the contactor to the second open position.
188. The method of claim 177, wherein operating the contactor to the first closed position comprises, in order: closing a physical contactor, and then closing a solid-state switch.
189. The method of claim 177, wherein operating the contactor to the second open position comprises, in order: opening a solid-state switch, and then opening a physical contactor.
190. A mobile application having a contactor, comprising:
a motive power circuit selectively coupling a power storage device to a motive power load;
a contactor interposed between the power storage device and the motive power load, wherein the
contactor in a first position allows power to flow between the power storage device and the motive power load, and wherein the contactor in a second position opens the motive power circuit; and a controller, comprising:
a contactor monitoring circuit structured to interpret a contactor wear parameter for the
contactor;
a contactor condition circuit structured to determine a contactor wear condition in response to the contactor wear parameter; and
a contactor threshold circuit structured to adjust a contactor operating threshold value in
response to the contactor wear condition.
191. The mobile application of claim 190, further comprising a contactor command circuit structured to provide a contactor open command in response to the contactor operating threshold value, and wherein the contactor is responsive to the contactor open command.
192. The mobile application of claim 190, wherein the contactor wear parameter comprises a parameter
representative of a contactor opening event under load.
193. The mobile application of claim 192, wherein the contactor wear parameter further comprises a parameter representative of a severity of the contactor opening event under load.
194. The mobile application of claim 192, wherein the contactor wear parameter further comprises a parameter representative of a contactor re-closing event related to the contactor opening event under load.
195. The mobile application of claim 190, wherein the contactor wear parameter comprises at least one
parameter selected from the parameters consisting of:
contactor opening events;
contactor closing events;
contactor power throughput;
contactor current throughput;
contactor circuit voltage values; and
a contactor feedback value.
196. The mobile application of claim 190, wherein the contactor threshold circuit is further structured to
increase the contactor operating threshold value in response to the contactor wear condition indicating that the contactor is at least one of worn, aged, damaged, or failed.
197. The mobile application of claim 196, further comprising a contactor management circuit structured to provide a contactor wear indication in response to the contactor wear condition.
198. The mobile application of claim 197, wherein the contactor wear indication comprises at least one indication selected from the indications consisting of:
an alert provided to an external computing device;
a notification provided to an external computing device;
a fault code value;
a fault code increment or decrement value;
a service request value; and
a contactor life value.
199. The mobile application of claim 190, wherein the contactor threshold circuit is further structured to
decrease the contactor operating threshold value in response to the contactor wear condition indicating that the contactor is at least one of worn, aged, damaged, or failed.
200. The mobile application of claim 199, further comprising a contactor management circuit structured to provide a contactor wear indication in response to the contactor wear condition.
201. The mobile application of claim 200, wherein the contactor wear indication comprises at least one
indication selected from the indications consisting of:
an alert provided to an external computing device;
a notification provided to an external computing device;
a fault code value;
a fault code increment or decrement value;
a service request value; and
a contactor life value.
202. A method, comprising;
interpreting a contactor wear parameter for a contactor of a motive power circuit of a mobile application; determining a contactor wear condition in response to the contactor wear parameter; and
adjusting a contactor operating threshold value in response to the contactor wear condition.
203. The method of claim 202, further comprising operating a contactor between an open and a closed position in response to a current value through the motive power circuit and the contactor operating threshold value.
204. The method of claim 202, wherein determining the contactor wear condition comprises determining the contactor wear parameter is representative of a contactor opening event under load.
205. The method of claim 204, wherein determining the contactor wear condition further comprises
determining a severity of the contactor opening event under load.
206. The method of claim 204, wherein determining the contactor wear condition comprises determining the contactor wear parameter is representative of a contactor re-closing event related to the contactor opening event under load.
207. The method of claim 204, wherein determining the contactor wear condition comprises accumulating contactor opening events indicated by the contactor wear parameter.
208. The method of claim 204, wherein determining the contactor wear condition comprises accumulating contactor closing events indicated by the contactor wear parameter.
209. The method of claim 204, wherein determining the contactor wear condition comprises accumulating contactor power throughput indicated by the contactor wear parameter.
210. The method of claim 204, wherein determining the contactor wear condition comprises accumulating contactor current throughput indicated by the contactor wear parameter.
211. The method of claim 204, wherein determining the contactor wear condition comprises accumulating contactor circuit voltage values indicated by the contactor wear parameter.
212. The method of claim 204, wherein determining the contactor wear condition comprises determining a contactor feedback value indicated by the contactor wear parameter.
213. The method of claim 204, wherein determining the contactor wear condition comprises accumulating contactor temperature values indicated by the contactor wear parameter.
214. The method of claim 204, wherein adjusting the contactor operating threshold value comprises increasing the contactor operating threshold value in response to the contactor wear condition indicating that the contactor is at least one of worn, aged, damaged, or failed.
215. The method of claim 214, further comprising providing a contactor wear indication in response to the contactor wear condition.
216. The method of claim 215, wherein providing the contactor wear indication comprises performing at least one operation selected from a list consisting of:
providing an alert to an external computing device;
providing a notification to an external computing device;
providing a fault code value;
providing a fault code increment or decrement value;
providing a service request value; and
providing a contactor life value.
217. The method of claim 204, wherein adjusting the contactor operating threshold value comprises decreasing the contactor operating threshold value in response to the contactor wear condition indicating that the contactor is at least one of worn, aged, damaged, or failed.
218. The method of claim 217, further comprising providing a contactor wear indication in response to the contactor wear condition.
219. The method of claim 218, wherein providing the contactor wear indication comprises performing at least one operation selected from a list consisting of:
providing an alert to an external computing device;
providing a notification to an external computing device;
providing a fault code value;
providing a fault code increment or decrement value;
providing a service request value; and
providing a contactor life value.
220. A mobile application, comprising:
a motive power circuit, the motive power circuit comprising a power storage device and an electrical load, wherein the power storage device and the electrical load are selectively electrically coupled through a power bus;
a power distribution unit (PDU) electrically interposed between the power storage device and the
electrical load; a pyro fuse positioned on the power bus;
a breaker/relay positioned on the power bus in series with the pyro fuse;
wherein the breaker/relay comprises:
a fixed contact electrically coupled to the power bus;
a movable contact selectively electrically coupled to the fixed contact, and wherein the movable contact allows power flow through the power bus when electrically coupled to the fixed contact, and prevents power flow through the power bus when not electrically coupled to the fixed contact; and
an armature operationally coupled to the movable contact, such that the armature in an open position prevents electrical coupling between the movable contact and the fixed contact, and the armature in a closed position allows electrical coupling between the movable contact and the fixed contact; and
a biasing member biasing the armature into one of the open position or the closed position.
221. The mobile application of claim 220, further comprising:
wherein the power bus comprises a first power bus path and a second power bus path, the first power bus path configured as a parallel electrical path to the second power bus path;
wherein the pyro fuse and the breaker/relay are position on the first power bus path; and
a second breaker/relay positioned on the second power bus path;
wherein the second breaker/relay comprises:
a second fixed contact electrically coupled to the second power bus path;
a second movable contact selectively electrically coupled to the second fixed contact, and
wherein the second movable contact allows power flow through the second power bus path when electrically coupled to the second fixed contact, and prevents power flow through the second power bus path when not electrically coupled to the second fixed contact; and a second armature operationally coupled to the second movable contact, such that the second armature in an open position prevents electrical coupling between the second movable contact and the second fixed contact, and the second armature in a closed position allows electrical coupling between the second movable contact and the second fixed contact; and a second biasing member biasing the second armature into one of the second open position or the second closed position.
222. The mobile application of claim 221, wherein a current rating of the first power bus path exceeds a motive power current rating of the mobile application.
223. The mobile application of claim 222, wherein a combined current rating of the first power bus path and the second power bus path exceeds a quick charge current rating of the mobile application.
224. The mobile application of claim 221, wherein a current rating of the first power bus path is below a motive power current rating of the mobile application.
225. The mobile application of claim 224, wherein a current rating the second power bus path is below the motive power current rating of the mobile application.
226. The mobile application of claim 225, wherein a combined current rating of the first power bus path and the second power bus path exceeds the motive power current rating of the mobile application.
227. The mobile application of claim 225, wherein a combined current rating of the first power bus path and the second power bus path exceeds a quick charge current rating of the mobile application.
228. The mobile application of claim 221, wherein a current rating of the second power bus path exceeds a limp-home current rating of the mobile application.
229. The mobile application of claim 228, wherein a current rating of the first power bus path exceeds a motive power current rating of the mobile application.
230. The mobile application of claim 228, wherein a current rating of the first power bus path exceeds a quick charge current rating of the mobile application.
231. The mobile application of claim 228, wherein the current rating of the second power bus path is below a motive power current rating of the mobile application.
232. The mobile application of claim 228, further comprising a resistive load positioned on the second power bus path.
233. The mobile application of claim 220, further comprising a circuit protection controller configured to command the armature to the open position at a first threshold current value, and to command the pyro fuse to open at a second threshold current value.
234. The mobile application of claim 233, wherein the first threshold current value is below the second
threshold current value.
235. The mobile application of claim 220, wherein the biasing member applies a closing force to the armature in the closed position such that the armature is configured to open due to Lorentz forces at a selected current value through the motive power circuit.
236. The mobile application of claim 235, further comprising a circuit protection controller configured to command the pyro fuse to open at a second threshold current value, wherein the selected current value is below the second threshold current value.
237. A power electronics assembly for a mobile application, comprising:
a first power electronics component selectively coupled to a high source on a first side, and coupled to a high voltage battery on a second side;
a second power electronics component selectively coupled to one of a low load or a low voltage battery on a first side, and coupled to the high voltage battery on a second side; and
a controller, comprising:
an operating mode circuit structured to determine a discharge operating mode for the mobile application;
a power electronics configuration circuit structured to provide a switch state value for the first power electronics component and the second power electronics component in response to the discharge operating mode; and
wherein the first power electronics component and the second power electronics component are
responsive to the switch state value to coupled selected ones of the high source, low load, and low voltage battery to the high voltage battery.
238. The power electronics assembly of claim 237, wherein the first power electronics component comprises a higher power rating than the second power electronics component.
239. The power electronics assembly of claim 238, wherein the first power electronics component comprises a power rating sufficient to provide rated power to a motive power motor for the mobile application.
240. The power electronics assembly of claim 238, wherein the second power electronics component comprises a power rating sufficient to provide power for a consumer power interface for the mobile application.
241. The power electronics assembly of claim 238, wherein the second power electronics component is further selectively coupled to a high source on the first side.
242. The power electronics assembly of claim 241, wherein the high source comprises at least one of a quick charging source or a high power charging source.
243. The power electronics assembly of claim 242, wherein the first power electronics component and the second power electronics component have a combined power rating sufficient to support the at least one of quick charging or high power charging.
244. The power electronics assembly of claim 237, wherein the second power electronics component is further selectively coupled to a high source on the first side.
245. The power electronics assembly of claim 244, wherein the high source comprises at least one of a quick charging source or a high power charging source.
246. The power electronics assembly of claim 245, wherein the first power electronics component and the second power electronics component have a combined power rating sufficient to support the at least one of quick charging or high power charging.
247. The power electronics assembly of claim 237, wherein the low load comprises at least one of an electrical accessory of the mobile application or a consumer power interface.
248. The power electronics assembly of claim 237, wherein the low voltage battery comprises a nominal battery voltage selected from the voltages consisting of: 12V, 24V, 42V, and 48V.
249. The power electronics assembly of claim 237, wherein the high voltage battery comprises a nominal battery voltage selected from the voltages consisting of: 240V, 400V, 480V, 600V, 800V, 1000 V, and 1200V.
250. The power electronics assembly of claim 237, wherein the first power electronics component is selectively coupled to a high load on the first side, wherein the high load comprises at least one of a grid load for the mobile application, a vocational load for the mobile application, or a motive power load for the mobile application.
251. The power electronics assembly of claim 237, wherein the second power electronics component is further selectively coupled to a high load on the first side.
252. The power electronics assembly of claim 251, wherein the first power electronics component and the second power electronics component have a combined power rating sufficient to provide rated power to a motive power motor for the mobile application.
253. The power electronics assembly of claim 237, further comprising:
wherein motive power passes from the high voltage battery to a move power motor for the mobile
application in a first operating condition; and
wherein charging power passes from a high source to the high voltage battery in a second operating
condition.
254. The power electronics assembly of claim 253, further comprising wherein low voltage charging power passes from the high voltage battery to the low voltage battery in either the first operating condition or the second operating condition, in response to a state of charge of the low voltage battery.
255. The power electronics assembly of claim 254, further comprising wherein low voltage pre-charge power passes from the low voltage battery to the high voltage battery in a third operating condition.
256. The power electronics assembly of claim 254, further comprising wherein the second power electronics component is selectively coupled to a low source on the first side, and wherein low voltage charging power passes from the low source to the high voltage battery in a fourth operating condition.
257. The power electronics assembly of claim 256, wherein the low source comprises at least one source
selected from the sources consisting of a trickle charger or a consumer charger.
258. The power electronics assembly of claim 257, wherein the low source comprises a higher voltage than the low voltage battery.
259. The power electronics assembly of claim 258, wherein the operating mode circuit is further structured to determine the discharge operating mode as the fourth operating condition, and wherein the power electronics configuration circuit is further structured to isolate the low voltage battery from the second power electronics component in response to the fourth operating condition.
260. The power electronics assembly of claim 237, wherein the first electronics component comprises a power rating selected from the power ratings consisting of: a 5.5 kW rating, and an 8 kW rating.
261. The power electronics assembly of claim 237, wherein the second electronics component comprises a power rating selected from the power ratings consisting of: a 3 kW rating, and a 5.5 kW rating.
262. A method, comprising:
determining whether a mobile application is operating in a first operating condition comprising a motive power condition or a second operating condition comprising a charging power condition;
in response to the first operating condition, providing motive power to a motive power motor from a high voltage battery through a first power electronics component; and
in response to the second operating condition, providing charging power to the high voltage battery from a high power source through the first power electronics component.
263. The method of claim 262, further comprising selectively providing low voltage charging power from the high voltage battery to a low voltage battery through a second power electronics component in response to a state of charge of the low voltage battery.
264. The method of claim 262, further comprising providing at least a portion of the charging power to the high voltage battery from the high power source through a second power electronics component further in response to the second operating condition.
265. The method of claim 262, further comprising providing at least a portion of the motive power to the
motive power motor form the high voltage battery through a second power electronics component further in response to the first operating condition.
266. A method, comprising:
interpreting a contactor open event and a contactor load value for a contactor positioned on a motive power circuit for a mobile application; determining that a contactor opening event under load has occurred in response to the contactor open event and the contactor load value; and
updating a contactor wear condition in response to the contactor opening event under load.
267. The method of claim 266, wherein the updating the contactor wear condition comprises accumulating a number of the contactor opening events under load.
268. The method of claim 267, further comprising:
determining a severity of the contactor opening event under load in response to the contactor load value; and
wherein the accumulating comprises accumulating at a rate determined in response to the severity of the contactor opening event under load.
269. The method of claim 266, wherein the contactor load value comprises at least one value selected from the values consisting of: a contactor current flow value, a contactor voltage value, a contactor power throughput value, a contactor exit velocity value, and a contactor temperature value.
270. The method of claim 266, further comprising determining that a contactor re-closing event related to the contactor opening event has occurred, and updating the contactor wear condition further in response to the contactor re-closing event.
271. The method of claim 270, further comprising:
determining a severity of the contactor re-closing event; and
updating the contactor wear condition further in response to the severity of the contactor re-closing event.
272. The method of claim 271, wherein determining the severity of the contactor re-closing event comprises performing at least one of: monitoring at least one of a voltage value or a current value for the contactor; determining a contactor exit velocity value for the contactor opening event; determining a contactor opening moving contact trajectory; interpreting a contactor opening command value; and interpreting an actuator response value to a contactor opening command value.
273. The method of claim 271, further comprising injecting a current across the contactor, and determining at least one of the severity of the contactor re-closing event or the contactor wear condition in response to the injected current.
274. The method of claim 271, further comprising determining the severity of the contactor re-closing event in response to a contactor temperature value.
275. The method of claim 266, further comprising determining an arc quenching effectiveness value, and
updating the contactor wear condition further in response to the arc quenching effectiveness value.
276. The method of claim 275, wherein the determining the arc quenching effectiveness value comprises
performing at least one operation selected from the operations consisting of:
comparing a contactor voltage signature to at least one contactor voltage profile;
comparing a contactor current signature to at least one contactor current profile; and
injecting a current across the contactor, and determining at least one of the arc quenching effectiveness value or the contactor wear condition in response to the injected current.
277. The method of claim 266, further comprising adjusting an operation of the contactor in response to the contactor wear condition.
278. The method of claim 277, wherein the adjusting the operation of the contactor comprises at least one operation selected from the operations consisting of:
setting a contactor fault value;
providing one of an alert or a notification to an external computing device in response to the contactor wear condition;
raising or lowering a contactor operating threshold value;
incrementing or decrementing a contactor fault value; and
at least partially bypassing the contactor with an available parallel circuit.
279. The method of claim 277, wherein the adjusting the operation of the contactor comprises utilizing a
contactor back-up mode operation.
280. The method of claim 279, wherein the contactor back-up mode operation comprises operating the motive power circuit in at least one of a de-rated operating mode or a limp-home operating mode.
281. The method of claim 279, wherein the contactor back-up mode operation comprises performing open and close operations for the motive power circuit with a solid state switch positioned on the motive power circuit.
282. The method of claim 279, wherein the contactor back-up mode operation comprises performing open and close operations for the motive power circuit with a second contactor.
283. The method of claim 282, wherein the contactor is positioned on one of a high side or a low side of the motive power circuit, and wherein the second contactor is positioned on the other one of the high side or the low side of the motive power circuit.
284. The method of claim 279, wherein the contactor back-up mode operation comprises closing the motive power circuit controlling a bypass circuit associated with the contactor.
285. The method of claim 284, wherein the bypass circuit comprises a pre-charge circuit.
286. The method of claim 285, further comprising adjusting a second contactor operating threshold value for a second contactor in response to the back-up mode operation.
287. The method of claim 285, further comprising adjusting a second contactor operating threshold value to protect at least one of the pre-charge circuit or a fuse disposed in the motive power circuit.
288. The method of claim 286, wherein the contactor is positioned on one of a high side or a low side of the motive power circuit, and wherein the second contactor is positioned on the other one of the high side or the low side of the motive power circuit.
289. The method of claim 266, further comprising interpreting a feedback value indicating the contactor wear condition, and further updating the contactor wear condition in response to the feedback value.
290. The method of claim 289, wherein the feedback value comprises an indication that the contactor is failed in one of a closed or open position.
291. The method of claim 289, wherein the feedback value comprises a service value provided by a service tool.
292. The method of claim 289, wherein the feedback value comprises a value indicating at least one of a
contactor resistance value or a contactor impedance value.
293. The method of claim 292, further comprising injecting a current across the contactor, and determining the at least one of the contactor resistance value or the contactor impedance value in response to the injected current.
294. An apparatus, comprising:
a contactor monitoring circuit structured to interpret a contactor open event and a contactor load value for a contactor positioned on a motive power circuit for a mobile application;
a contactor damage assessment circuit structured to determine that a contactor opening event under load has occurred in response to the contactor open event and the contactor load value; and
a contactor condition circuit structured to update a contactor wear condition in response to the contactor opening event under load.
295. The apparatus of claim 294, wherein the contactor damage assessment circuit is further structured to determine a severity of the contactor opening event under load in response to the contactor load value, and wherein the contactor condition circuit is further structured to update the contactor wear condition further in response to the severity.
296. The apparatus of claim 294, wherein the contactor damage assessment circuit is further structured to determine that a contactor re-closing event related to the contactor opening event has occurred, and wherein the contactor condition circuit is further structured to update the contactor wear condition further in response to the contactor re-closing event.
297. The apparatus of claim 296, wherein the contactor damage assessment circuit is further structured to determine a severity of the contactor re-closing event, and wherein the contactor condition circuit is further structured to update the contactor wear condition further in response to the severity of the contactor re closing event.
298. The apparatus of claim 297, further comprising:
wherein the contactor monitoring circuit is further structured to determine at least one re-closing
characterization parameter selected from: a monitored voltage value or a monitored current value for the contactor; a contactor exit velocity for the contactor opening event; a contactor opening moving contact trajectory; a contactor opening command value; or an actuator response value to a contactor opening command value; and
wherein the contactor damage assessment circuit is further structured to determine the severity of the contactor re-closing event in response to the at least one re-closing characterization parameter.
299. The apparatus of claim 294, wherein the contactor monitoring circuit is further structured to inject a
current across the contactor, and wherein the contactor condition circuit is further structured to update the contactor wear condition further in response to the injected current.
300. The apparatus of claim 299, wherein the contactor damage assessment circuit is further structured to determine at least one of a contactor resistance value or a contactor impedance value in response to the injected current, and wherein the wherein the contactor condition circuit is further structured to update the contactor wear condition further in response to the at least one of the contactor resistance value or the contactor impedance value.
301. A mobile application, comprising:
a motive power circuit, the motive power circuit comprising a power storage device and an electrical load, wherein the power storage device and the electrical load are selectively electrically coupled through a power bus;
a power distribution unit (PDU) electrically interposed between the power storage device and the
electrical load;
a breaker/relay positioned on the motive power circuit, and on one of a high side and a low side of the power storage device; and
wherein the breaker/relay comprises:
a fixed contact electrically coupled to the power bus;
a movable contact selectively electrically coupled to the fixed contact, and wherein the movable contact allows power flow through the power bus when electrically coupled to the fixed contact, and prevents power flow through the power bus when not electrically coupled to the fixed contact; and
an armature operationally coupled to the movable contact, such that the armature in a first position prevents electrical coupling between the movable contact and the fixed contact, and the armature in a second position allows electrical coupling between the movable contact and the fixed contact; and
a first biasing member biasing the armature into one of the first position or the second position; and
a current sensing device positioned on the power bus, wherein the current sensing device provides a contact current value comprising a current flow through the fixed contact; and a motive power controller configured to control power flow from the power storage device to the
electrical load using the contact current value.
302. The mobile application of claim 301, wherein breaker/relay and the current sensing device are mounted together in a housing.
303. The mobile application of claim 301, the current sensing device is mounted inside the PDU.
304. The mobile application of claim 301, wherein the breaker/relay and the current sensing device are mounted inside the PDU.
305. The mobile application of claim 301, wherein the motive power controller is further configured to use the contact current value in a power diagnostic application.
306. The mobile application of claim 305, wherein the motive power controller is further configured to perform the power diagnostic application by determining a fault condition of the motive power circuit, and commanding the breaker/relay to an open condition where the movable contact is not electrically coupled to the fixed contact in response to the fault condition.
307. The mobile application of claim 301, wherein the breaker/relay further comprises:
a contact force spring operationally interposed between the armature and the movable contact, such that in response to the armature being in the second position, the contact force spring is at least partially compressed, and wherein the contact force spring is configured such that a Lorentz force acting between the fixed contact and the movable contact further compresses the contact force spring in response to a selected current value.
308. The mobile application of claim 307, wherein the current value is lower than the selected current value.
309. The mobile application of claim 308, wherein the motive power controller is further configured to
command the breaker/relay to an open condition in response to the contact current value exceeding a threshold current value.
310. The mobile application of claim 309, wherein the threshold current value is lower than the selected current value.
311. The mobile application of claim 310, further comprising a fuse positioned on the motive power circuit in a series configuration with the breaker/relay.
312. The mobile application of claim 311, wherein at least one of the threshold current value or the contact current value is greater than a current rating of the fuse.
313. A breaker/relay, comprising:
a fixed contact electrically coupled to a power bus for a mobile application;
a movable contact selectively electrically coupled to the fixed contact;
an armature operationally coupled to the movable contact, such that the armature in a first position
prevents electrical coupling between the movable contact and the fixed contact, and the armature in a second position allows electrical coupling between the movable contact and the fixed contact;
a first biasing member biasing the armature into one of the first position or the second position;
a standard on/off circuit having at least two states, wherein the standard on/off circuit in a first state provides an actuating signal and in a second state prevents the actuating signal;
a current response circuit structured to determine a contact current value through the fixed contact, and further structured to block the actuating signal of the standard on/off circuit in response to the contact current value indicating a high current value; and
wherein the armature is responsive to the actuating signal to electrically couple the movable contact to the fixed contact.
314. The breaker/relay of claim 313, wherein the current response circuit is further structured to, in response to the contact current value indicating a high current value, latch the blocking of the actuating signal of the standard on/off circuit.
315. The breaker/relay of claim 314, wherein the current response circuit is further structured to stop the
blocking of the standard on/of actuating signal of the standard on/off circuit in response to at least one of a control command or a service command indicating that a closing of the breaker/relay is allowed.
316. The breaker/relay of claim 314, wherein the current response circuit is further structured to stop the
blocking of the standard on/of actuating signal of the standard on/off circuit in response to a diagnostic command indicating that a closing of the breaker/relay is to be attempted.
317. The breaker/relay of claim 313, wherein the current response circuit provides the contact current value to a motive power controller configured to control power flow through the power bus for the mobile application.
318. The breaker/relay of claim 317, wherein the power bus for the mobile application comprises a motive power circuit.
319. A method, comprising: detecting a contactor current value for a contactor of a breaker/relay positioned in a motive power circuit of a mobile application; and
controlling power flow through the motive power circuit in response to the contactor current value.
320. The method of claim 319, wherein controlling power flow through the motive power circuit comprises determining a target current value corresponding to an operator request value, and controlling the power flow through the motive power circuit in response to the target current value.
321. A system, comprising:
a mobile application having a plurality of loads;
at least one power bus;
at least two power distribution equipment devices (PDE), each PDE electrically interposed between one of the at least one power bus and at least one of the plurality of loads, and each PDE comprising at least a contactor, a control input, and a sensor output interface; and
a PDE controller operationally coupled to each of the PDEs, wherein the PDE controller is configured to provide a contactor command to the control input of each of the PDEs, and to receive a sensor signal from the sensor output interface of each of the PDEs.
322. The system of claim 321, wherein the mobile application further comprises a battery controller, and
wherein the PDE controller is further positioned on the battery controller.
323. The system of claim 321, wherein the mobile application further comprises a vehicle controller, and
wherein the PDE controller is further positioned on the vehicle controller.
324. The system of claim 321, wherein the PDE controller is positioned on a control PDE having at least one contactor, and electrically interposed between one of the at least one power bus and at least one of the plurality of loads.
325. The system of claim 321, further comprising wherein each control input comprises an electrical input, and wherein each contactor of each PDE is responsive to an electrical value provided at a corresponding control input.
326. The system of claim 321, further comprising wherein each sensor output interface comprises an electrical output, and wherein an electrical value provided at a corresponding sensor output interface is representative of a sensed value.
327. The system of claim 326, wherein each sensed value comprises at least one of a current value, a voltage value, or a contactor position value.
328. The system of claim 321, wherein the PDE controller comprises a plurality of input/output (I/O) interfaces, and wherein corresponding ones of the I/O interfaces are coupled directly to the control inputs or sensor output interfaces of one or more of the PDEs.
329. The system of claim 321, wherein the PDE controller is communicatively coupled to at least one
multiplexing device, and wherein the at least one multiplexing device is electrically interposed between the PDE controller and one or more of the PDEs.
330. A system, comprising:
a mobile application having a high voltage battery pack positioned within a housing; a plurality of power distribution equipment devices (PDE), each of the PDEs having at least one contactor, and electrically interposed between the high voltage battery pack and a corresponding electrical interface of the housing; and
a main PDE positioned on a motive power circuit, the main PDE comprising a main contactor, and a high voltage interlock coupled to the main PDE, such that when a connector coupled to the corresponding electrical interface of the housing for the main PDE is disconnected, the main contactor is opened.
331. The system of claim 330, further comprising a current sensor in series with the main contactor.
332. The system of claim 331, further comprising a fuse in series with the main contactor.
333. The system of claim 330, wherein the main contactor comprises a breaker/relay device.
334. The system of claim 330, wherein each of the PDEs further comprises an interlock coupled to the
corresponding PDE, such that if a connector coupled to the corresponding electrical interface of the housing for the corresponding PDE is disconnected, the corresponding at least one contactor is opened.
335. The system of claim 330, further comprising a current sensor in series with each of the contactors of the plurality of PDEs.
336. The system of claim 335, further comprising a fuse in series with each of the contactors of the plurality of PDEs.
337. An apparatus for measuring a high voltage with high accuracy, comprising:
a high voltage bus comprising a high voltage value of interest;
an isolated low voltage source;
a voltage divider coupled to the high voltage bus on an input side, and providing a proportionate low voltage on an output side; and
a voltage comparator having the isolated low voltage source and proportionate low voltage as inputs, and providing an output voltage difference comprising a representation of the high voltage value of interest.
338. The apparatus of claim 337, further comprising a voltage normalizer having the output voltage difference as in input, and provided a selected gain and offset to the output voltage difference, thereby generating a high voltage output value.
339. The apparatus of claim 338, wherein the high voltage bus operates between 0V and not greater than
1000V, and wherein the high voltage output value comprises a proportional low voltage representation of the high voltage value of interest.
340. The apparatus of claim 338, wherein the high voltage output value comprises a value between 0.5 V and
4.5 V.
341. The apparatus of claim 338, wherein the voltage divider divides the voltage by a factor of about ^-vri * k , wherein Vhl and Vh2 represent a range of the high voltage value of interest, wherein Vrl and Vr2 represent a display range of the low voltage representation of the high voltage value of interest, and wherein k represents the selected gain of the voltage normalizer.
342. The apparatus of claim 337, further comprising:
an additional plurality of high voltage busses each comprising a high voltage value of interest;
wherein the isolated low voltage source is isolated from each of the high voltage busses; a corresponding voltage divider coupled to each of the additional plurality of high voltage busses on an input side, and providing a proportional low voltage on an output side; and
a corresponding voltage comparator for each corresponding voltage divider, each corresponding voltage comparator having the isolated low voltage source and the corresponding proportional low voltage as inputs, and providing a corresponding output voltage difference comprising a representation of the high voltage value of interest for the corresponding one of the additional plurality of high voltage busses.
343. The apparatus of claim 342, further comprising two additional high voltage busses, and wherein the high voltage bus and two additional high voltage busses each correspond to a phase of a drive motor power input for a mobile application.
344. The apparatus of claim 337, wherein the voltage divider and the voltage comparator comprise solid state components.
345. The apparatus of claim 337, further comprising a voltage normalizer having the output voltage difference as in input, and provided a selected gain and offset to the output voltage difference, thereby generating a high voltage output value, and wherein the voltage normalizer comprises solid state components.
346. A method, comprising:
accessing a high voltage from a high voltage bus comprising a high voltage value of interest;
dividing the high voltage by a selected division factor;
determining a voltage difference between the divided high voltage and an isolated low reference voltage; and
providing the voltage difference as a low voltage representation of the high voltage value of interest.
347. The method of claim 346, further comprising applying at least one of a selected gain or selected offset to the voltage difference to determine a normalized voltage value, and providing the normalized voltage value as a high voltage output value.
348. The method of claim 346, wherein the dividing the high voltage and determining the voltage difference comprise operating solid state components.
349. The method of claim 346, wherein the applying at least one of the selected gain or selected offset
comprises operating solid state components.
350. A method, comprising:
operating a drive motor for a mobile application using a three-phase power input;
determining a high voltage value corresponding to each phase of the three-phase power input; and diagnosing a component fault in response to the high voltage value corresponding to each phase of the three-phase power input.
351. The method of claim 350, further comprising determining a drive motor speed response, and diagnosing a fault of the drive motor in response to the high voltage value corresponding to each phase of the three-phase power input and the drive motor speed response.
352. The method of claim 350, further comprising determining a drive motor torque response, and diagnosing a fault of the drive motor in response to the high voltage value corresponding to each phase of the three-phase power input and the drive motor torque response.
353. The method of claim 350, further comprising determining a direct current (DC) capacitor fault in response to the high voltage value corresponding to each phase of the three-phase power input.
354. The method of claim 350, further comprising determining an inverter driver fault in response to the high voltage value corresponding to each phase of the three-phase power input.
355. The method of claim 350, further comprising adjusting an operating condition of the drive motor, and updating the diagnosing in response to the adjusted operating condition.
356. The method of claim 355, wherein the adjusting comprise at least one operation selected from the
operations consisting of:
reducing a power throughput through a direct current (DC) capacitor;
changing an inverter driver providing at least a portion of one of the phases of the three-phase power input; and
inducing a transient power event for the drive motor.
357. The method of claim 355, wherein the adjusting comprises reducing a power throughput through a direct current (DC) capacitor, and wherein the adjusting comprises observing an adjusted operation performed as a nominal control operation of the drive motor.
358. The method of claim 355, wherein the adjusting comprises inducing a transient power event for the drive motor, and wherein the adjusting comprises observing an adjusted operation performed as a nominal control operation of the drive motor.
359. An apparatus, comprising:
a direct current (DC)/DC converter assembly for a mobile application, the DC/DC converter assembly selectively to a power source on a first side, to a high voltage battery on a second side, and to a low voltage battery on a third side, wherein the DC/DC converter assembly comprises:
a first winding positioned on the first side, and configured for a selected power source voltage;
a second winding positioned on the second side, and configured for a selected high voltage battery
voltage; and
a third winding positioned on the second side, and configured for a selected low voltage battery voltage.
360. The apparatus of claim 359, wherein the selected power source voltage comprises a power source voltage corresponding to a maximum current operation for high voltage battery charging.
361. The apparatus of claim 359, wherein the selected high voltage battery voltage comprises a high voltage battery voltage corresponding to a maximum current operation for high voltage battery charging.
362. The apparatus of claim 359, wherein the selected low voltage battery voltage comprises a low voltage battery voltage corresponding to a maximum current operation for low voltage battery charging.
363. The apparatus of claim 359, wherein the first winding, the second winding, and the third winding share magnetic components.
364. The apparatus of claim 359, further comprising a fourth winding positioned on the first side, and
configured for a second selected power source voltage.
365. The apparatus of claim 364, wherein the selected power source voltage comprises a power source voltage corresponding to a maximum current operation for high voltage battery charging with a single phase power source, and wherein the second selected power source voltage comprises a maximum current operation for high voltage battery charging with a three phase power source.
366. The apparatus of claim 364, wherein the first winding and the fourth winding comprise separate magnetic components, the apparatus further comprising a fifth winding on the second side, wherein the fifth winding shares magnetic components with the fourth winding.
367. The apparatus of claim 366, wherein the first winding and the fourth winding comprise a same power transfer rating.
368. The apparatus of claim 366, wherein the first winding and the fourth winding comprise distinct power transfer ratings.
369. The apparatus of claim 364, further comprising a charging circuit structured to interpret a high voltage battery charging condition, and to provide charging through a selected one of the first winding or the fourth winding in response to the high voltage battery charging condition.
370. The apparatus of claim 366, further comprising a charging circuit structured to provide charging of the high voltage battery through the first winding, and to provide charging of the low voltage battery through the fifth winding.
371. The apparatus of claim 359, further comprising a 6th winding positioned on the first side, wherein the 6th winding is configured for a selected wireless charging source.
372. The apparatus of claim 371, wherein the first winding, second winding, third winding, and 6th winding share magnetic components.
373. An apparatus comprising:
a motive power circuit comprising a high current capability electrical path;
a first hall effect current sensor electrically coupled to the high current capability electrical path;
a second shunt resistor current sensor electrically coupled to the high current capability electrical path; a controller, comprising:
a current definition circuit structured to determine a current regime of the high current capability electrical path;
a current selection circuit structured to determine a sensor utilization value in response to the current regime; and
a current determination circuit structured to determine a current value of the high current capability electrical path in response to the current regime and a current signal from at least one of the first hall effect current sensor or the second shunt resistor current sensor.
374. The apparatus of claim 373, wherein the current selection circuit structured to determine a sensor
utilization value as the second shunt resistor in response to determining the second shunt resistor is operating in a valid operating region.
375. The apparatus of claim 374, wherein the current selection circuit is further structured to determine the second shunt resistor is operating in the valid operating region in response to a temperature of the second shunt resistor.
376. The apparatus of claim 373, wherein the current selection circuit structured to determine a sensor
utilization value as the second shunt resistor in response to the current regime being below a threshold current value.
377. The apparatus of claim 376, wherein the current selection circuit is further structured to provide a
hysteresis operation in response to determining that a current regime change is indicated.
378. The apparatus of claim 373, wherein the current determination circuit is further structured to perform a smoothing operation on the current value in response to a change in the current regime.
379. The apparatus of claim 373, wherein the current selection circuit structured to determine a sensor
utilization value as the second shunt resistor in response to the current regime being above a threshold current value.
380. A system for power distribution diagnostics in a mobile electric application, comprising:
a diagnostic circuit comprising a diagnostic switching element in series with an electrical sensor, the electrical sensor comprising a resistive element and structured to monitor at least one electrical characteristic, wherein the diagnostic circuit is electrically connected in parallel with a direct current switching element disposed in a circuit path of a direct current bus; and
a controller structured to:
generate an output signal to switch the diagnostic switching element from an open position to a closed position,
monitor the at least one electrical characteristic of the electrical sensor, and
determine a diagnostic condition for an electrical load on the direct current bus based on the monitoring of the at least one electrical characteristic.
381. The system of claim 380, wherein the at least one electrical characteristic comprises at least one of a voltage and a current.
382. The system of claim 381, wherein the output signal of the controller is modulated to emulate a resistance trajectory.
383. The system of claim 380, wherein the diagnostic condition distinguishes between a fault condition of the electrical load and a normal operating condition of the electrical load.
384. The system of claim 383, wherein the fault condition is an electrical short condition on the direct current bus and the normal operating condition is an electrical overload condition of the electrical load.
385. The system of claim 383, wherein the fault condition is an open condition of the direct current bus and the normal operating condition is an active condition of the electrical load.
386. The system of claim 380, wherein the diagnostic condition determines a device type of the electrical load.
387. The system of claim 380, the controller further structured to analyze the monitored electrical characteristic with a fast Fourier transform to determine the diagnostic condition.
388. The system of claim 387, wherein at least one frequency component from the fast Fourier transform
contributes at least in part to the determination of the diagnostic condition.
389. The system of claim 380, the controller further structured to analyze the monitored electrical characteristic to determine an electrical characteristic time profile to at least in part determine the diagnostic condition.
390. The system of claim 380, the controller further structured to analyze the monitored electrical characteristic to determine a rate of change for the electrical characteristic to at least in part determine the diagnostic condition.
391. The system of claim 390, the controller further structured to determine a derivative of the rate of change to at least in part determine the diagnostic condition.
392. The system of claim 391, the controller further structured to apply a filter to the monitored electrical characteristic and wherein the derivative is a second derivative.
393. The system of claim 380, wherein determining the diagnostic condition for the electrical load is based at least in part on a plurality of diagnostic models.
394. The system of claim 380, the controller further structured to generate a second output signal to switch the diagnostic switching element to return from the closed position to the open position, wherein a time interval between generating the output signal and generating the second output signal is a momentary time interval less than a predetermined value, and the resistive element has a power rating less than a required power rating for the direct current bus.
395. The system of claim 380, further comprising a secondary diagnostic circuit comprising a second diagnostic switching element in series with a second electrical sensor comprising a second resistive element, the second electrical sensor structured to monitor at least one secondary electrical characteristic, wherein the secondary diagnostic circuit is electrically connected in parallel with the diagnostic circuit, the controller further structured to:
generate a second output signal to switch the second diagnostic switching element from an open position to a closed position;
monitor the at least one secondary electrical characteristic of the second electrical sensor, and
determine a secondary diagnostic condition for the electrical load based on the monitoring of the at least one secondary electrical characteristic.
396. The system of claim 395, wherein the second resistive element has a second resistive value that is less than a resistive value of the resistive element.
397. A controller, comprising:
a mobile application circuit communicatively coupled to a diagnostic circuit comprising a diagnostic switching element in series with an electrical sensor, the electrical sensor comprising a resistive element and structured to monitor at least one electrical characteristic, wherein the diagnostic circuit is electrically connected in parallel with a direct current switching element disposed in a circuit path of a direct current bus; and
the controller structured to:
generate an output signal to switch the diagnostic switching element from an open position to a closed position,
monitor the at least one electrical characteristic of the electrical sensor, and
determine a diagnostic condition for an electrical load on the direct current bus based on the monitoring of the at least one electrical characteristic.
398. The controller of claim 397, wherein the at least one electrical characteristic comprises at least one of a voltage and a current.
399. The controller of claim 398, wherein the output signal of the controller is modulated to emulate a resistance trajectory.
400. The controller of claim 397, wherein the diagnostic condition distinguishes between a fault condition of the electrical load and a normal operating condition of the electrical load.
401. The controller of claim 400, wherein the fault condition is an electrical short condition on the direct current bus and the normal operating condition is an electrical overload condition of the electrical load.
402. The controller of claim 400, wherein the fault condition is an open condition of the direct current bus and the normal operating condition is an active condition of the electrical load.
403. The controller of claim 397, wherein the diagnostic condition determines a device type of the electrical load.
404. The controller of claim 397, the controller further structured to analyze the monitored electrical
characteristic with a fast Fourier transform to determine the diagnostic condition.
405. The controller of claim 404, wherein at least one frequency component from the fast Fourier transform contributes at least in part to the determination of the diagnostic condition.
406. The controller of claim 397, the controller further structured to analyze the monitored electrical
characteristic to determine an electrical characteristic time profile to at least in part determine the diagnostic condition.
407. The controller of claim 397, the controller further structured to analyze the monitored electrical
characteristic to determine a rate of change for the electrical characteristic to at least in part determine the diagnostic condition.
408. The controller of claim 407, the controller further structured to determine a derivative of the rate of change to at least in part determine the diagnostic condition.
409. The controller of claim 408, the controller further structured to apply a filter to the monitored electrical characteristic and wherein the derivative is a second derivative.
410. The controller of claim 397, wherein determining the diagnostic condition for the electrical load is based at least in part on a plurality of diagnostic models.
411. The controller of claim 397, the controller further structured to generate a second output signal to switch the diagnostic switching element to return from the closed position to the open position, wherein a time interval between generating the output signal and generating the second output signal is a momentary time interval less than a predetermined value, and the resistive element has a power rating less than a required power rating for the direct current bus.
412. The controller of claim 397, further comprising a secondary diagnostic circuit comprising a second
diagnostic switching element in series with a second electrical sensor comprising a second resistive element, the second electrical sensor structured to monitor at least one secondary electrical characteristic, wherein the secondary diagnostic circuit is electrically connected in parallel with the diagnostic circuit, the controller further structured to:
generate a second output signal to switch the second diagnostic switching element from an open position to a closed position;
monitor the at least one secondary electrical characteristic of the second electrical sensor, and
determine a secondary diagnostic condition for the electrical load based on the monitoring of the at least one secondary electrical characteristic.
413. The controller of claim 412, wherein the second resistive element has a second resistive value that is less than a resistive value of the resistive element.
414. A method, comprising:
generating an output signal to switch a diagnostic switching element of a diagnostic circuit from an open position to a closed position, wherein the diagnostic circuit comprises the diagnostic switching element in series with an electrical sensor, the electrical sensor comprising a resistive element and structured to monitor at least one electrical characteristic, wherein the diagnostic circuit is electrically connected in parallel with a direct current switching element disposed in a circuit path of a direct current bus;
monitoring the at least one electrical characteristic of the electrical sensor; and
determining a diagnostic condition for an electrical load on the direct current bus based on the monitoring of the at least one electrical characteristic.
415. The method of claim 414, wherein the at least one electrical characteristic comprises at least one of a
voltage and a current.
416. The method of claim 415, wherein the output signal is modulated to emulate a resistance trajectory.
417. The method of claim 414, wherein the diagnostic condition distinguishes between a fault condition of the electrical load and a normal operating condition of the electrical load.
418. The method of claim 417, wherein the fault condition is an electrical short condition on the direct current bus and the normal operating condition is an electrical overload condition of the electrical load.
419. The method of claim 417, wherein the fault condition is an open condition of the direct current bus and the normal operating condition is an active condition of the electrical load.
420. The method of claim 414, wherein the diagnostic condition determines a device type of the electrical load.
421. The method of claim 414, further comprising analyzing the monitored electrical characteristic with a fast Fourier transform to determine the diagnostic condition.
422. The method of claim 421, wherein at least one frequency component from the fast Fourier transform
contributes at least in part to the determination of the diagnostic condition.
423. The method of claim 414, further comprising analyzing the monitored electrical characteristic to determine an electrical characteristic time profile to at least in part determine the diagnostic condition.
424. The method of claim 414, further comprising analyzing the monitored electrical characteristic to determine a rate of change for the electrical characteristic to at least in part determine the diagnostic condition.
425. The method of claim 424, further comprising determining a derivative of the rate of change to at least in part determine the diagnostic condition.
426. The method of claim 425, further comprising applying a filter to the monitored electrical characteristic and wherein the derivative is a second derivative.
427. The method of claim 414, wherein determining the diagnostic condition for the electrical load is based at least in part on a plurality of diagnostic models.
428. The method of claim 414, further comprising generating a second output signal to switch the diagnostic switching element to return from the closed position to the open position, wherein a time interval between generating the output signal and generating the second output signal is a momentary time interval less than a predetermined value, and the resistive element has a power rating less than a required power rating for the direct current bus.
429. The method of claim 414, further comprising:
generating a second output signal to switch a second diagnostic switching element of a secondary
diagnostic circuit from an open position to a closed position, wherein the secondary diagnostic circuit comprises a second diagnostic switching element in series with a second electrical sensor comprising a second resistive element, the second electrical sensor structured to monitor at least one secondary electrical characteristic, wherein the secondary diagnostic circuit is electrically connected in parallel with the diagnostic circuit;
monitoring the at least one secondary electrical characteristic of the second electrical sensor, and determining a secondary diagnostic condition for the electrical load based on the monitoring of the at least one secondary electrical characteristic.
430. The method of claim 429, wherein the second resistive element has a second resistive value that is less than a resistive value of the resistive element.
431. A solid state pre-charge circuit for pre-charging a direct current bus of a vehicle from a battery, the precharge circuit comprising:
a solid-state switching element having an input terminal, an output terminal, and a control terminal; a controller structured to generate an output signal that is coupled to the control terminal of the solid-state switching element;
an electrical sensor structured to monitor at least one electrical characteristic of the direct current bus; wherein the output signal of the controller causes an electrical connection between the input and the output terminals of the solid-state switching element and wherein the output signal is generated based at least in part on the at least one electrical characteristic.
432. The circuit of claim 431, wherein the solid-state switching element comprises at least one power metaloxide-semiconductor field effect transistor (MOSFET).
433. The circuit of claim 431, wherein the at least one electrical characteristic comprises at least one of a voltage and a current.
434. The circuit of claim 431, further comprising a passive resistor in series with the solid-state switching
element.
435. The circuit of claim 433, wherein the controller is configured to generate the output signal to limit the current at the direct current bus during a pre-charge cycle.
436. The circuit of claim 433, wherein the output signal of the controller is a pulse with modulated (PWM) signal having a duty cycle and a frequency.
437. The circuit of claim 436, wherein the duty cycle and the frequency of the output signal of the controller is modulated to emulate a resistance between the input terminal and the output terminal of the solid-state switching element.
438. The circuit of claim 436, wherein the duty cycle and the frequency of the output signal of the controller is modulated to emulate a resistance trajectory between the input terminal and the output terminal of the solidstate switching element.
439. The circuit of claim 436, wherein the duty cycle and the frequency of the output signal of the controller is modulated based at least in part on a capacitance of the direct current bus.
440. The circuit of claim 436, wherein the duty cycle and the frequency of the output signal of the controller is modulated to emulate a time varying resistance between the input terminal and the output terminal of the solid-state switching element.
441. The circuit of claim 436, wherein the controller is further structured to increase the duty cycle of the output signal in response to an increase in the voltage on the direct current bus.
442. The circuit of claim 436, wherein the controller is further structured to increase the duty cycle of the output signal as a function of duration of a pre-charge cycle.
443. The circuit of claim 436, wherein the duty cycle and the frequency of the output signal of the controller is modulated based at least in part on at least one of the voltage of the direct current bus.
444. A method of pre-charging a direct current bus of a vehicle from a battery using a solid-state switching element, the method comprising:
providing a power input at an input terminal of the solid-state switching element, wherein the power input is provided to the direct current bus via an output terminal of the solid-state switching element in response to a control signal at a control terminal of the solid-state switching element;
monitoring at least one electric characteristic of the direct current bus;
generating the control signal that is coupled to the control terminal of the solid-state switching element, wherein the control signal is a pulse with modulated (PWM) signal having a duty cycle and a frequency;
wherein the control signal causes an electrical connection between the input and the output terminals of the solid-state switching element and wherein the control signal is generated based at least in part on the at least one electrical characteristic of the direct current bus.
445. The method of claim 444, wherein the monitoring comprises monitoring comprises at least one of a voltage and a current.
446. The method of claim 444, further comprising modulating the duty cycle of the control signal to emulate a resistance between the input terminal and the output terminal of the solid-state switching element.
447. The method of claim 444, further comprising modulating the duty cycle and the frequency of the control signal to emulate a resistance trajectory between the input terminal and the output terminal of the solid-state switching element.
448. The method of claim 444, further comprising modulating the duty cycle and the frequency of the control signal based at least in part on a capacitance of the direct current bus.
449. The method of claim 444, further comprising modulating the duty cycle and the frequency of the control signal to emulate a time varying resistance between the input terminal and the output terminal of the solidstate switching element.
450. The method of claim 445, further comprising increasing the duty cycle of the control signal as the voltage in response to an increase in the voltage on the direct current bus.
451. The method of claim 444, further comprising increasing the duty cycle of the control signal as a function of duration of a pre-charge cycle.
452. A method of controlling a pre-charging of a direct current bus of a vehicle from a battery using a solid-state switching element, the method comprising:
receiving at least one electric characteristic of the direct current bus;
generating a control signal that is coupled to a control terminal of the solid-state switching element, wherein the control signal is a pulse with modulated (PWM) signal having a duty cycle and a frequency;
221 wherein the control signal causes an electrical connection between an input terminal and an output terminal of the solid-state switching element and wherein the control signal is generated based at least in part on the at least one electrical characteristic of the direct current bus.
453. The method of claim 452, wherein the at least one electrical characteristic comprises at least one of a voltage and a current.
454. The method of claim 452, further comprising modulating the duty cycle of the control signal to emulate a resistance between the input terminal and the output terminal of the solid-state switching element.
455. The method of claim 452, further comprising modulating at least one of the duty cycle and the frequency of the control signal to emulate a resistance trajectory between the input terminal and the output terminal of the solid-state switching element.
456. The method of claim 452, further comprising modulating at least one of the duty cycle and the frequency of the control signal based at least in part on a capacitance of the direct current bus.
457. The method of claim 452, further comprising modulating at least one of the duty cycle and the frequency of the control signal to emulate a time varying resistance between the input terminal and the output terminal of the solid-state switching element.
458. The method of claim 453, further comprising increasing the duty cycle of the control signal as the voltage in response to an increase in the voltage on the direct current bus.
459. The method of claim 452, further comprising increasing the duty cycle of the control signal as a function of duration of a pre-charge cycle.
460. A system, comprising:
a vehicle comprising a motive electrical power path; and
a power distribution unit having a motive current protection circuit disposed in the motive electrical power path, the motive current protection circuit including a thermal fuse circuit element and a pyrotechnic switch circuit element disposed in the motive electrical power path,
wherein the fuse circuit element comprises a restricted conductive path structure disposed in the motive electrical power path and the pyrotechnic switch circuit element comprises an active material operationally coupled to the motive electrical power path, and
wherein the fuse circuit element and the pyrotechnic switch circuit element each comprise printed
elements.
461. The system of claim 460, wherein the printed thermal fuse circuit element and the pyrotechnic switch circuit element are electrically coupled in a series arrangement.
462. The system of claim 461, wherein the restricted conductive path structure is configured to at least in part melt when a predetermined threshold current is maintained through the restricted conductive path structure.
463. The system of claim 462, wherein the pyrotechnic switch circuit element comprises a second restricted conductive path structure, wherein the active material is operationally coupled to the second restricted conductive path structure.
464. The system of claim 463, wherein the second restricted conductive path structure is configured to
electrically open circuit when the active material is activated.
465. The system of claim 460, wherein the motive electrical power path is configured to electrically open when the active material is commanded to activate.
466. The system of claim 465, wherein the pyrotechnic switch circuit element comprises a second restricted conductive path structure.
467. The system of claim 466, wherein the second restricted conductive path structure has a higher current threshold than the restricted conductive path.
468. The system of claim 466, wherein the second restricted conductive path structure comprises a mechanical restriction.
469. The system of claim 468, wherein the mechanical restriction has a high current capacity.
470. The system of claim 468, wherein the mechanical restriction comprises a plurality of layered conductive structures.
471. The system of claim 465, wherein the active material is encapsulated around the motive electrical path.
472. The system of claim 471, wherein the active material is encapsulated around the motive electrical path in concentric layers.
473. The system of claim 471, wherein the active material is encapsulated around the motive electrical path with radially disposed geometric features to increase surface contact between the active material and the motive electrical path.
474. The system of claim 460, further comprising a pyrotechnic switch trigger circuit applied over a substrate by a printing process, wherein the pyrotechnic switch trigger circuit triggers the active material to activate by a received trigger command.
475. The system of claim 460, wherein the printed elements are applied over a substrate.
476. The system of claim 475, wherein the substrate is a ceramic-based substrate.
477. The system of claim 475, wherein the printed elements comprise a material that forms a metallurgical bond with the substrate.
478. The system of claim 477, wherein the substrate has a high thermal conductivity as compared to a class of electrically insulative substrates to promote removal heat from the restricted conductive path structure.
479. The system of claim 475, further comprising a layer of dielectric interposed between the restricted
conductive path structure and the substrate.
480. The system of claim 479, wherein the dielectric is a glass-based material.
481. The system of claim 460, further comprising a layer of dielectric interposed between the active material and a substrate.
482. The system of claim 481, further comprising a printing process comprising printing of a first conductive path structure on a first side of the substrate and printing of a second conductive path structure on a second side of the substrate.
483. The system of claim 481, further comprising mounting the substrate to a formed metallic structure
comprising a metallic form disposed in a cooling media.
484. The system of claim 483, wherein the cooling media is sand.
485. The system of claim 460, wherein at least one of the restricted conductive path and a second restricted conductive path structure for the pyrotechnic switch circuit element has a geometric structural configuration element.
486. The system of claim 485, wherein the geometric structural configuration element is a circular structural configuration element.
487. The system of claim 485, wherein the geometric structural configuration element is a rectangular structural configuration element.
488. The system of claim 485, wherein the geometric structural configuration element is a hexagonal structural configuration element.
489. The system of claim 485, wherein the geometric structural configuration element is a slotted structural configuration element.
490. The system of claim 485, wherein the geometric structural configuration element is a multilayer structural configuration element.
491. The system of claim 485, wherein an adjacent thickness of a portion is different than a geometric structural configuration element thickness.
492. An apparatus, comprising:
a current detection circuit structured to determine a current flow through a motive electrical power path and to selectively provide a pyrotechnic open command in response to the current flow; and a current protection circuit disposed in the motive electrical power path, the motive current protection circuit including a thermal fuse circuit element and a pyrotechnic switch circuit element electrically coupled and disposed in the motive electrical power path,
wherein the pyrotechnic switch circuit element is responsive to the pyrotechnic open command to open the motive electrical power path,
wherein the thermal fuse circuit element comprises a restricted conductive path structure disposed in the motive electrical power path and the pyrotechnic switch circuit element comprises an active material operationally coupled to the motive electrical power path, and
wherein the fuse circuit element and the pyrotechnic switch circuit element each comprise printed
elements.
493. The apparatus of claim 492, wherein the printed thermal fuse circuit element and the pyrotechnic switch circuit element are electrically coupled in a series arrangement.
494. The apparatus of claim 493, wherein the restricted conductive path structure is configured to at least in part melt when a predetermined threshold current is maintained through the restricted conductive path structure.
495. The apparatus of claim 494, wherein the pyrotechnic switch circuit element comprises a second restricted conductive path structure, wherein the active material is operationally coupled to the second restricted conductive path structure.
496. The apparatus of claim 495, wherein the second restricted conductive path structure is configured to
electrically open circuit when the active material is activated by the pyrotechnic open command.
497. The apparatus of claim 492, wherein the motive electrical power path is configured to electrically open when the active material is commanded to activate by the pyrotechnic open command.
498. The apparatus of claim 497, wherein the pyrotechnic switch circuit element comprises a second restricted conductive path structure.
499. The apparatus of claim 498, wherein the second restricted conductive path structure has a higher current threshold than the restricted conductive path.
500. The apparatus of claim 498, wherein the second restricted conductive path structure comprises a
mechanical restriction.
501. The apparatus of claim 500, wherein the mechanical restriction has a high current capacity.
502. The apparatus of claim 500, wherein the mechanical restriction comprises a plurality of layered conductive structures.
503. The apparatus of claim 497, wherein the active material is encapsulated around the motive electrical path.
504. The apparatus of claim 503, wherein the active material is encapsulated around the motive electrical path in concentric layers.
505. The apparatus of claim 503, wherein the active material is encapsulated around the motive electrical path with radially disposed geometric features to increase surface contact between the active material and the motive electrical path.
506. The apparatus of claim 492, further comprising the current detection circuit applied over a substrate by a printing process, wherein the current detection circuit triggers the active material to activate by a received trigger command.
507. A method, comprising:
powering a motive electrical power path of a vehicle through a current protection circuit comprising a printed thermal fuse circuit element having a restricted conductive path structure disposed in the motive electrical power path, and a pyrotechnic switch circuit element comprising a printed pyrotechnic element disposed in the motive electrical power path;
selectively opening the motive electrical power path by performing at least one of:
opening the printed fuse circuit element as a thermal response of the printed fuse circuit element to a current flow through the motive electrical power path; or
opening the printed fuse circuit element in response to a pyrotechnic open command.
508. The method of claim 507, wherein the printed thermal fuse circuit element and the pyrotechnic switch circuit element are electrically coupled in a series arrangement.
509. The method of claim 507, wherein the pyrotechnic open command is in response to a value of the current flow through the motive electrical power path.
510. The method of claim 507, wherein the pyrotechnic open command is in response to a shutdown request for the motive electrical power path.
511. A method, comprising:
printing a thermal fuse circuit element having a restricted conductive path structure;
printing a pyrotechnic switch circuit element comprising a printed pyrotechnic element;
electrically coupling the thermal fuse circuit element and the pyrotechnic switch circuit, thereby forming a current protection circuit; and
integrating the current protection circuit into a motive electrical power path for a motive application.
512. The method of claim 511, wherein the printing is a 3D printing process.
513. The method of claim 512, wherein the 3D printing process includes at least one of a process of material deposition/melting, lithography, sintering, and laminate layers).
514. The method of claim 511, wherein the printing is a screen-printing process.
515. The method of claim 514, wherein the screen-printing process is used successively to provide a laminate 3D layered process.
516. The method of claim 511, wherein the printing is an ink-jet printing process.
517. The method of claim 516, wherein the ink-jet printing process is used successively to provide a laminate 3D layered process.
518. The method of claim 511, wherein the printing is a printing in place process.
519. The method of claim 511, wherein the printing comprises developing a variable cross-sectional thickness structure of the restricted conductive path structure.
520. The method of claim 519, further comprising reliably thermally failing based on the variable crosssectional thickness structure.
521. The method of claim 519, further comprising reliably mechanically failing based on the variable crosssectional thickness structure.
522. The method of claim 511, wherein the printed thermal fuse circuit element and the pyrotechnic switch circuit element are electrically coupled in a series arrangement.
523. The method of claim 522, wherein the restricted conductive path structure is configured to at least in part melt when a predetermined threshold current is maintained through the restricted conductive path structure.
524. The method of claim 523, wherein the pyrotechnic switch circuit element comprises a second restricted conductive path structure, wherein an active material is operationally coupled to the second restricted conductive path structure.
525. The method of claim 524, wherein the second restricted conductive path structure is configured to
electrically open circuit when the active material is activated.
526. The method of claim 511, wherein the motive electrical power path is configured to electrically open when an active material is commanded to activate.
527. The method of claim 526, wherein the pyrotechnic switch circuit element comprises a second restricted conductive path structure.
528. The method of claim 527, wherein the second restricted conductive path structure has a higher current threshold than the restricted conductive path.
</claims>
</document>
