<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J9/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ABB SCHWEIZ
</assignee>

<inventors>
MARTINEZ, CARLOS
CHOI, SANG EUN
HUANG, Jinmiao
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70465143
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING-BASED SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CONTROLLING ROBOTIC OBJECT PICKING AND PLACEMENT IN TRAINING AND RUN TIME ENVIRONMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and software for controlling object picking and placement by a robot system are disclosed. The method includes assigning machine learning training data of a machine learning model for an object. The machine learning training data includes a plurality of known grasp location labels assigned to the object positioned in a plurality of different object poses. The method includes providing the object in a work space of the robot system. For the object in the work space in a first pose of the plurality of different object poses, the method includes: mapping a first candidate grasp location on the object; executing robotic movements for the first candidate grasp location on the object; and evaluating a result of the executing for the first candidate grasp location according to at least one predetermined performance criteria.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. method for controlling object picking and placement by a robot system, the robot system including: a processor in communication with a memory device, a robotic arm in communication with the processor, and an object gripper device operably coupled to the robotic arm and in communication with the processor, the method comprising:
(a) assigning and storing in the memory device, by the processor, machine learning training data of a machine learning model for an object, wherein the machine learning training data includes a plurality of known grasp location labels assigned to the object positioned in a plurality of different object poses;
(b) providing the object in a work space of the robot system;
(c) for the object in the work space in a first pose of the plurality of different object poses:
(i) mapping, by the processor, a first candidate grasp location on the object;
(ii) executing, by the robotic arm and the object gripper device, robotic movements for the first candidate grasp location on the object; and
(iii) evaluating, by the processor, a result of the executing for the first candidate grasp location according to at least one predetermined performance criteria.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the plurality of known grasp location labels are assigned to each of a plurality of known images of the object stored in the memory device;
the machine learning training data are stored in the memory device as a set of data pairs, each data pair of the set of data pairs corresponding to one of the plurality of known grasp location labels assigned to one of the plurality of known images of the object; and
the mapping includes mapping the first candidate grasp location on the object based on: one or more images of the object positioned in the work space in the first pose obtained by the processor, and a first data pair of the set of data pairs.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the mapping includes applying, by the processor, a mapping function of the machine learning model to the object in the work space in the first pose; and
said method further comprises: in response to the result of the executing meeting the at least one predetermined performance criteria, assigning, by the processor, the mapping function to the machine learning model for the first candidate grasp location on the object in the first pose in the work space of the robot system.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
(iv) in response to the result of the executing not meeting the at least one
predetermined performance criteria:
(A) mapping, by the processor, at least a second candidate grasp location on the object in the work space in the first pose, wherein the at least a second candidate grasp location is different from the first candidate grasp location;
(B) iterating, by the processor and for at least one iteration, through (c)(i) - (c)(iii) for the at least a second candidate grasp location on the object; and
(C) for the iterating:
if the result of the executing meets the at least one predetermined performance criteria, then assigning, by the processor, at least a second mapping function to the machine learning model for the at least a second candidate grasp location on the object in the first pose in the work space of the robot system;
else: subsequent iterating, by the processor and for at least one subsequent iteration, through (c)(i) - (c)(iii) for at least one subsequent candidate grasp location on the object.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the set of data pairs includes a first data pair and at least a second data pair, and wherein the mapping (iv)(A) includes mapping the at least a second candidate grasp location on the object based on: one or images of the object positioned in the work space in the first pose obtained by the processor, and the at least a second data pair.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining, by the processor, an autonomous movement control scheme based on a position of the first candidate grasp location on the object in the work space.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the robot system further includes one or more sensors in communication with the processor and operably coupled to at least one of: the robotic arm and the object gripper device, and wherein the executing includes:
grasping, by the robotic arm and the object gripper device, the object; and
acquiring, by the processor and from the one or more sensors, grasp quality data for the grasping.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the evaluating includes evaluating a grasp quality of the at least one of: the robotic arm and the object gripper device, for the object based on the acquired grasp quality data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the mapping is performed in the absence of estimating, by the processor, the first pose of the object in the work space.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the work space includes a run time work space of the robot system, said method further comprising:
providing the object in the run time work space; and
mapping, by the processor, the first candidate grasp location on the object in the run time work space in the first pose, wherein the mapping includes applying, by the processor, a mapping function of the machine learning model to the object in the run time work space in the first pose.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the mapping the first candidate grasp location on the object in the run time work space in the first pose is performed in the absence of estimating, by the processor, the first pose of the object in the run time work space.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the object includes a plurality of objects including a first object and at least a second object different from the first object;
the first object is used in a first performance of the method; and
for the at least a second object, the method further comprises iterating, by the processor and for at least one iteration, at least a second performance of the method.
13. A system for controlling object picking and placement by a robot, the system comprising:
at least one object gripper device; at least one robotic arm operably coupled to the at least one object gripper device; at least one memory device; and
at least one processor in communication with the at least one memory device, wherein the at least one processor is programmed to:
(a) assign machine learning training data of a machine learning model for an object, wherein the machine learning training data includes a plurality of known grasp location labels assigned to the object positioned in a plurality of different object poses; and
(b) for the object positioned in a work space of the robot in a first pose of the plurality of different object poses:
(i) map a first candidate grasp location on the object;
(ii) execute robotic movements by the at least one robotic arm and the at least one object gripper device for the first candidate grasp location on the object; and
(iii) evaluate a result of the executing for the first candidate grasp location according to at least one predetermined performance criteria stored in the at least one memory device.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the work space includes a run time work space of the robot, and wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to:
map the first candidate grasp location on the object in the run time work space in the first pose; and
for mapping the first candidate grasp location on the object in the run time work space in the first pose, apply a mapping function of the machine learning model to the object in the run time work space in the first pose.
15. The system of claim 14, where the at least one processor is further
programmed to: execute the autonomous movement control scheme for the first candidate grasp location on the object in the run time work space.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to: evaluate a result of the executing for the first candidate grasp location on the object in the run time work space according to the at least one predetermined performance criteria.
17. The system of claim 16 further comprising one or more sensors in communication with the at least one processor and operably coupled to at least one of: the at least one robotic arm, and the at least one object gripper device, wherein, for the executing, the at least one processor is further programmed to:
grasp the object; and
acquire, from the one or more sensors, grasp quality data for the grasping.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein, for the evaluating, the at least one processor is further programmed to: evaluate a grasp quality of the at least one of: the at least one robotic arm, and the at least one object gripper device, for the object based on the acquired grasp quality data.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein, if the result of the executing for the first candidate grasp location on the object in the run time work space does not meet the at least one predetermined performance criteria, the at least one processor is further programmed to iterate, for at least one iteration, through (b)(i) - (b)(iii).
20. A non-transient computer-readable medium storing as software processorexecutable instructions for controlling object picking and placement by a robot system, wherein, when executed by one or more processors in communication with one or more memory devices, the processor-executable instructions cause the one or more processors to:
(a) assign machine learning training data of a machine learning model for an object, wherein the machine learning training data includes a plurality of known grasp location labels assigned to the object positioned in a plurality of different object poses;
(b) for the object positioned in a work space of the robot system in a first pose of the plurality of different object poses:
(i) map a candidate grasp location on the object;
(ii) execute robotic movements by at least one robotic arm and at least one object gripper device of the robot system for the candidate grasp location on the object; and
(iii) evaluate a result of the executing for the candidate grasp location according to at least one predetermined performance criteria.
</claims>
</document>
