<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-17
</priority_date>

<assignee>
COMPANION MEDICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
SAINT, SEAN
PRYOR, JACK
HOLMQUIST, ARNOLD
MENSINGER, MICHAEL
CHILDS, ANDREW
HAMPAPURAM, HARIPRIYAN
SMITH, Madison
IM, Heung Yong
GAETANO, Angela
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72837989
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRIME DIFFERENTIATION IN MEDICATION DELIVERY SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, devices, and techniques are disclosed for differentiating a therapeutic dose and a priming event to properly administer medication to patients. In one example aspect, a method for differentiating therapeutic doses and priming events in administering a medication to a patient includes determining a time window for monitoring dispensing of the medication by an injection pen device. Multiple dispense events each releasing an amount of the medication occur in the time window. The method also includes classifying dispense events prior to a last dispense event in the time window as priming events or therapeutic doses and designating the last dispense event in the time window as a therapeutic dose for facilitating calculation and tracking of a dosage amount for the patient.
</abstract>

<claims>
CLAIMS^
What is claimed is:
1. A method for determining an appropriate time duration to display a therapeutic dose recommendation associated with a current dispense event from a medicine dispensing device, comprising:
displaying, on a display device, a dose recommendation comprising a recommended therapeutic dose amount of medicine for a user of a medicine dispensing device;
analyzing use data pertaining to at least one of past and present dispense events for a particular user; and
removing the dose recommendation from the user interface based on the analysis of the use data. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the use data comprises volume data from the last dispense event, and the volume of the last dispense event exceeds a preset threshold value. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing use data comprises:
identifying a set of episodes occurring within a predetermined period of time prior to the current episode, wherein an episode comprises a collection of prime dispensing activity and therapeutic dose dispensing activity occurring within a defined period of time following the display of the dose recommendation;
determining a representative prime count value based upon a count of prime events per episode within the identified set of episodes;
determining a representative prime amount value based upon a volume of dispensed medicine in prime events per episode within the identified set of episodes;
determining a representative dose duration time value based upon dose duration time values per episode within the identified set of episodes; and calculating an appropriate timing for dose recommendation dismissal using at least one of the representative prime count value, the representative prime amount value, and the representative dose duration value. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein analyzing use data comprises:
calculating a sum value of dispense events occurring since the display of the dose recommendation, wherein a dispense event comprises any volume of medicine ejected from the medicine dispensing device; and
comparing the calculated sum value of dispense events to a user-specific threshold value. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the user-specific threshold value is calculated using:
(representative prime amount) * (representative prime count) + (dose recommendation)– (dialing error correction value). 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of removing the dose recommendation from the user interface based on the analyzed use data comprises:
upon determining that the calculated sum value of dispense events at least one of meets and exceeds the user-specific threshold value, removing the displayed dose recommendation from the display device. 7. The method of claim 3, wherein the predetermined period of time comprises a
length of time sufficient to establish a pattern of behavior of a user of the medicine dispensing device. 8. The method of claim 3, wherein the predetermined period of time comprises one week. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing use data pertaining to at least one of past and present dispense events for a particular user comprises analyzing a set of past prime dispense events to calculate a confidence score that a given dispense event is a prime event; and
analyzing a set of past therapeutic dispense events to calculate a confidence score that a given dispense event is a therapeutic dose event. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the step of removing the dose recommendation from the user interface based on the analyzed use data comprises:
upon determining that the current dispense event has a volume that at least one of meets and exceeds a preset confidence score threshold value, removing the displayed dose recommendation from the display device. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the display device comprises at least one of the medicine dispensing device and a mobile communication device associated with the medicine dispensing device. 12. A method for differentiating between a therapeutic dose and a priming event in dispensing medication by a medication dispensing device, comprising:
analyzing a plurality of dispensing events that occur in a sequence, the sequence including at least a first dispensing event and a last dispensing event, each dispensing event comprising a dispensed amount of medication from the medication dispensing device;
classifying at least one of the dispensing events occurring prior to the last dispensing event as a therapeutic dose dispensing event based on at least one of:
(a) the dispensed amount has a volume that is above a predefined threshold volume;
(b) the dispensed amount has a volume that is equal to a maximum volume capacity of the dispensing device; and
(c) the dispensed amount exhausts the supply of medicine contained within the dispensing device.
13. A method for differentiating therapeutic and priming events in administering a medication by a medication injection device, comprising:
analyzing a plurality of dispensing events that occur in a sequence within a preset time period and within a dose window; and
classifying at least one of the dispensing events as a therapeutic dose dispensing event based on one or more criteria. 14. The method of claim 13, comprising:
estimating a duration of a single dispensing event in the sequence to differentiate a single dispensing event from multiple consecutive dispensing events in the sequence using a variable time threshold; and
deriving a time window based on the duration of the single dispense event. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the variable time threshold is adjusted based on past dispensing events of a user of the medicine injection device. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the variable time threshold is adjusted based on a speed of movement when a user manipulates the medication injection device for dispensing a therapeutic dose or dispensing a prime dose. 17. The method claim 13, wherein the classifying comprises:
designating a dispensing event as the therapeutic dose dispensing event upon determining that an amount of the medication released in the dispensing event exceeds a predefined threshold. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the predefined threshold is determined based on past dispensing events of the patient. 19. The method of claim 13, wherein the classifying comprises:
designating a dispensing event by comparing an amount of the medication released in the dispensing event with a predefined priming dosage amount.
20. The method of claim 13, wherein the classifying comprises:
designating a dispensing event as a priming event upon determining that the dispensing event occurs immediately after a cartridge replacement of the medication injection device. 21. The method of claim 13, wherein the classifying comprises:
designating a first dispensing event in the sequences as the therapeutic dose dispensing event upon determining that an amount of the medication released in a first dispensing event reaches a maximum limit of the medication injection device; designating a second dispensing event immediately following the first dispensing event as the therapeutic dose dispensing event; and
accumulating the amount of the medication released in the first and second dispensing events for the calculation and tracking of a dosage amount for a patient. 22. The method of claim 13, wherein the classifying comprises:
notifying a user when there is an ambiguity in the classifying of a dispensing event; and
receiving an input from the user to confirm whether the dispensing event is a therapeutic dose dispensing event or a priming event. 23. An apparatus for differentiating a therapeutic dispensing event and a priming event in administering a medication, comprising:
a processor, and
a non-transitory memory including processor executable code, wherein the processor executable code upon execution by the processor configures the processor to:
determine, based on an input from a sensor of an injection device, whether the injection device is in contact with a patient or is held freely; designate a dispensing event as a priming event when the device is held freely; and designate a dispensing event as a dosing event when the device is in contact with a patient. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the sensor of the injection device includes at least one of an accelerometer, a pressure sensor and a vibration sensor. 25. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the sensor of the injection device includes a capacitive sensor coupled to a needle of the injection device to detect a skin contact electrically. 26. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the sensor of the injection device includes a depth sensor or a capacitive sensor oriented toward an end of a needle of the injection device to detect a nearby surface. 27. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the processor executable code upon execution by the processor configures the processor to:
activate, prior to detecting a priming event, a locking mechanism on the injection device upon determining that the injection device is not oriented vertically upward; and
deactivate the locking mechanism after a priming event is detected. 28. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the injection device is configured to perform the first dispense of the medication as the priming event automatically.
</claims>
</document>
