<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04L29/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MCAFEE
</assignee>

<inventors>
JOSHI, HARSHA
NALLURI, SRIKANTH
KULKARNI DATTATRAYA
JOSHI, PIYUSH
SRIVASTAVA, HIMANSHU
REVASHETTI, SIDDARAYA
KONDA, TIRUMALESWAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70552134
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS, SYSTEMS, AND MEDIA FOR DYNAMICALLY SEPARATING INTERNET OF THINGS DEVICES IN A NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and media for dynamically separating Internet of Things (IoT) devices in a network are provided. In accordance with some embodiments of the disclosed subject matter, a method for dynamically separating IoT devices in a network is provided, the method comprising: detecting a first IoT device in the network; monitoring network communication of the first IoT device; determining device information of the first IoT device based on the monitored network communication; and causing the first IoT device to communicate on a first subnet of a plurality of subnets in the network based on the device information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for dynamically separating Internet of Things (IoT) devices in a network, the method comprising:
detecting a first IoT device in the network;
monitoring network communication of the first IoT device;
determining device information of the first IoT device based on the monitored network communication; and
causing the first IoT device to communicate on a first subnet of a plurality of subnets in the network based on the device information.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising assigning to the first IoT device a first Internet Protocol (IP) address corresponding to the first subnet.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising restricting communication between the first IoT device configured to communicate on the first subnet and a second IoT device configured to communicate on a second subnet of the plurality of subnets.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising dynamically creating the first subnet in response to determining the device information.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising causing the first IoT device configured to communicate on the first subnet to communicate on a third subnet of the plurality of subnets.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein causing the first IoT device to communicate on the third subnet comprises sending at least one Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) message causing the first IoT device to reconfigure with a second IP address corresponding to the third subnet.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
detecting an anomaly associated with the first IoT device; and in response to detecting the anomaly, causing the first IoT device to communicate on a fourth subnet of the plurality of subnets, wherein each IoT device configured to
communicate on the fourth subnet is prevented from communicating with any IoT device configured to communicate on any other subnet of the plurality of subnets.
8. A system for dynamically separating IoT devices in a network, the system comprising:
a hardware processor that is configured to:
detect a first IoT device in the network;
monitor network communication of the first IoT device;
determine device information of the first IoT device based on the monitored network communication; and
cause the first IoT device to communicate on a first subnet of a plurality of subnets in the network based on the device information.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to assign to the first IoT device a first IP address corresponding to the first subnet.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to restrict communication between the first IoT device configured to communicate on the first subnet and a second IoT device configured to communicate on a second subnet of the plurality of subnets.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to dynamically create the first subnet in response to determining the device information.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to cause the first IoT device configured to communicate on the first subnet to communicate on a third subnet of the plurality of subnets.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to send at least one DHCP message causing first IoT device to reconfigure with a second IP address corresponding to the third subnet.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to: detect an anomaly associated with the first IoT device; and
in response to detecting the anomaly, cause the first IoT device to communicate on a fourth subnet of the plurality of subnets, wherein each IoT device configured to
communicate on the fourth subnet is prevented from communicating with any IoT device configured to communicate on any other subnet of the plurality of subnets.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium containing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a method for dynamically separating IoT devices in a network, the method comprising:
detecting a first IoT device in the network;
monitoring network communication of the first IoT device;
determining device information of the first IoT device based on the monitored network communication; and
causing the first IoT device to communicate on a first subnet of a plurality of subnets in the network based on the device information.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the method further comprising assigning to the first IoT device a first IP address corresponding to the first subnet.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the method further comprising restricting communication between the first IoT device configured to communicate on the first subnet and a second IoT device configured to communicate on a second subnet of the plurality of subnets.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the method further comprising dynamically creating the first subnet in response to determining the device information.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the method further comprising causing the first IoT device configured to communicate on the first subnet to communicate on a third subnet of the plurality of subnets.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the method further comprising:
detecting an anomaly associated with the IoT device; and
in response to detecting the anomaly, causing the IoT device to communicate on a fourth subnet of the plurality of subnets, wherein each IoT device configured to communicate on the fourth subnet is prevented from communicating with any IoT device configured to communicate on any other subnet of the plurality of subnets.
</claims>
</document>
