<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B41/00,G06N5/04,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LANDMARK GRAPHICS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEV, ASHWANI
NAIR, GEETHA GOPAKUMAR
NIELSEN, ROXANA
PRIYADARSHY, SATYAM
SINGH, AJAY, PRATAP
VENUGOPAL, SURESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69644581
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DRILL BIT REPAIR TYPE PREDICTION USING MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
The subject disclosure provides for a mechanism implemented with neural networks through machine learning to predict wear and relative performance metrics for performing repairs on drill bits in a next repair cycle, which can improve decision making by drill bit repair model engines, drill bit design, and help reduce the cost of drill bit repairs. The machine learning mechanism includes obtaining drill bit data from different data sources and integrating the drill bit data from each of the data sources into an integrated dataset. The integrated dataset is pre-processed to filter out outliers. The filtered dataset is applied to a neural network to build a machine learning based model and extract features that indicate significant parameters affecting wear. A repair type prediction is determined with the applied machine learning based model and is provided as a signal for facilitating a drill bit operation on a cutter of the drill bit.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method, comprising:
obtaining drill bit data from a plurality of data sources through one or more application programming interfaces communicably coupled to a processor circuit;
integrating, in a data integration engine executed on the processor circuit, the drill bit data from each of the plurality of data sources into an integrated dataset;
pre-processing, in a data pre-process engine executed on the processor circuit, the integrated dataset to filter out one or more outlier data points from the integrated dataset;
processing, in the processor circuit, the filtered dataset with a neural network to build a machine learning based model;
processing, in the processor circuit, the machine learning based model to extract one or more features that indicate significant parameters affecting wear on a drill bit;
determining a repair type prediction with the applied machine learning based model based on the extracted one or more features, the repair type prediction indicating a repair action for a cutter on a drill bit; and
providing a signal indicating a value of the repair type prediction for facilitating a drill bit operation on a cutter of the drill bit based on the repair type prediction.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the drill bit data includes one or more of drill bit design information, repair history, performance data, formation data, dull characteristics, or cutter physical properties.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the drill bit design information is a dataset that includes cutter location and orientation on a drill bit.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the repair history is a dataset that includes a sequence of repairs for individual cutters in a drill bit.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the performance data is a dataset that includes operating conditions during a drilling operation, a total length of a drilled wellbore, weight-onbit (WOB) information, rotational information such as revolutions-per-minute (RPM), and rateof-penetration (ROP) data.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the dull characteristics is a dataset that classifies wear into recognized wear patterns.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein the cutter physical properties is a dataset that includes parameters describing abrasion resistance, thermal and mechanical integrity, and impact resistance.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the pre-processing comprises utilizing one or more filtering algorithms with the data pre-process engine to remove one or more data points from the integrated dataset that exceed a predetermined threshold or reside outside a predetermined cluster of data points by a measured amount.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the pre-processing comprises calculating one or more of a plurality of variables with the data pre-process engine, wherein the plurality of variables respectively indicate 1) a last repair type, 2) a wellbore trajectory during a drill bit run, 3) a diamond volume distribution, 4) a total length traveled by a cutter during a drilling operation, 5) total energy absorbed by each cutter during a drilling operation, 6) a normalized distance of each cutter from the center of a drill bit.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the pre-processing comprises:
determining whether real-time drilling data is available with the data pre-process engine, and
calculating statistical properties for each of the plurality of variables when the real-time drilling data is available,
wherein the calculated statistical properties indicate a relationship between cutter wear and a variation in the plurality of variables.
11. The method of claim 1 , wherein the repair type prediction is determined based on drilling parameters, cutter design and position, and subterranean formation lithology.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
training the neural network as a feedforward network using input variables from the integrated dataset, wherein each of the input variables is assigned to a weighted classification associated with the feedforward network.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
selecting between a plurality of classes of machine learning based models based on a user objective, wherein a decision tree model of the plurality of classes of machine learning based models is selected when the user objective is to gain visual insight about decision making,
wherein a deep learning based model of the plurality of classes of machine learning based models is selected when the user objective is to use results for optimization, and
wherein the applied machine learning based model corresponds to the selected model.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the repair type prediction comprises selecting the machine learning based model with a repair type prediction value corresponding to a highest accuracy value based on the extracted one or more features.
15. A system, comprising:
a drilling string comprising a drill bit coupled to a distal end of the drilling string; and a machine learning based device operably coupled to the drilling string and having a memory and a processor, wherein the memory comprises commands which, when executed by the processor, cause the machine learning based device to:
obtain drill bit data from a plurality of data sources through one or more application programming interfaces communicably coupled to the processor;
combine data from each of the plurality of data sources into an integrated dataset; pre-process the integrated types of data to filter outliers from the integrated dataset;
generate a plurality of neural network models using the integrated dataset as training data;
select one or more of the plurality of neural network models based on a user objective;
process, in a processing circuit, the selected one or more neural network models to extract features of a drill bit and determine significant parameters affecting wear; determine a repair type prediction value corresponding to a highest accuracy value based on the extracted features; and
provide a signal indicating the repair type prediction value for facilitating a drill bit operation on a cutter of a drill bit based on the repair type prediction value.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the commands which, when executed by the processor, further cause the system to: train the neural network as a feedforward network using input variables from the integrated dataset, wherein each of the input variables is assigned to a weighted classification associated with the feedforward network.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the commands which, when executed by the processor, further cause the system to:
select between a plurality of classes of machine learning based models based on a user objective,
wherein a decision tree model of the plurality of classes of machine learning based models is selected when the user objective is to gain visual insight about decision making, and wherein a deep learning based model of the plurality of classes of machine learning based models is selected when the user objective is to use results for optimization.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause a computer to:
obtain drill bit data from a plurality of data sources through one or more application programming interfaces communicably coupled to a processor circuit;
integrate, in a data integration engine executed on the processor circuit, the drill bit data from each of the plurality of data sources into an integrated dataset;
pre-process, in a data pre-process engine executed on the processor circuit, the integrated dataset to filter out one or more outlier data points from the integrated dataset;
process, in the processor circuit, the filtered dataset to a neural network to build a machine learning based model;
process, in the processor circuit, the machine learning based model to extract one or more features that indicate significant parameters affecting wear on a drill bit;
determine a repair type prediction with the applied machine learning based model based on the extracted one or more features, the repair type prediction indicating a repair action for a cutter on a drill bit; and
provide a signal indicating a value of the repair type prediction for facilitating a drill bit operation on a cutter of the drill bit based on the repair type prediction.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the instructions which, when executed by the processor, further cause the computer to: select the machine learning based model with a repair type prediction value corresponding to a highest accuracy value based on the extracted one or more features.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the instructions which, when executed by the processor, further cause the computer to:
select between a plurality of classes of machine learning based models based on a user objective,
wherein a decision tree model of the plurality of classes of machine learning based models is selected when the user objective is to gain visual insight about decision making,
wherein a deep learning based model of the plurality of classes of machine learning based models is selected when the user objective is to use results for optimization, and
wherein the applied machine learning based model corresponds to the selected model.
</claims>
</document>
