<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/09,G05D1/00,H04W4/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COTE, WILLIAM FRANCIS
LIU, SHIH-YUAN
CHANG, HSUN-HSIEN
WONGPIROMSARN, TICHAKORN
FRAZZOLI, EMILIO
NICE, ERYK BRIAN
ASSAD, OMAR AL
ROBBEL, PHILIPP
WOLFF ERIC
YERSHOV, DMYTRO S.
SPIESER, KEVIN
BEIJBOM, OSCAR OLOF
JACOBS, RYAN LEE
MEIJBURG, MARIA ANTOINETTE
MARCZUK, KATARZYNA ANNA
SECCAMONTE, FRANCESCO
ALBERT, MARC LARS LJUNGDAHL
JEON, JEONG HWAN
CENSI ANDREA
</assignee>

<inventors>
COTE, WILLIAM FRANCIS
LIU, SHIH-YUAN
CHANG, HSUN-HSIEN
WONGPIROMSARN, TICHAKORN
FRAZZOLI, EMILIO
NICE, ERYK BRIAN
ASSAD, OMAR AL
ROBBEL, PHILIPP
WOLFF ERIC
YERSHOV, DMYTRO S.
SPIESER, KEVIN
BEIJBOM, OSCAR OLOF
JACOBS, RYAN LEE
MEIJBURG, MARIA ANTOINETTE
MARCZUK, KATARZYNA ANNA
SECCAMONTE, FRANCESCO
ALBERT, MARC LARS LJUNGDAHL
JEON, JEONG HWAN
CENSI ANDREA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70464217
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REDUNDANCY IN AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES
</title>

<abstract>
Among other things, we describe techniques for redundancy in autonomous vehicles. For example, an autonomous vehicle can include two or more redundant autonomous vehicle operations subsystems.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An autonomous vehicle, comprising:
a first sensor configured to produce a first sensor data stream from one or more environmental inputs external to the autonomous vehicle while the autonomous vehicle is in an operational driving state;
a second sensor configured to produce a second sensor data stream from the one or more environmental inputs external to the autonomous vehicle while the autonomous vehicle is in the operational driving state, the first sensor and the second sensor being configured to detect a same type of information; and
a processor coupled with the first sensor and the second sensor, wherein the processor is configured to detect an abnormal condition based on a difference between the first sensor data stream and the second sensor data stream, and wherein the processor is configured to switch among the first sensor, the second sensor, or both as an input to control the autonomous vehicle in response to a detection of the abnormal condition.
2. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to capture a first set of data values within the first sensor data stream over a sampling time window, wherein the processor is configured to capture a second set of data values within the second sensor data stream over the sampling time window, and wherein the processor is configured to detect the abnormal condition by determining a deviation between the first set of data values and the second set of data values.
3. The autonomous vehicle of claim 2, wherein the processor is configured to control a duration of the sampling time window responsive to a driving condition.
4. The autonomous vehicle of claim 2, wherein a duration of the sampling time window is predetermined.
5. The autonomous vehicle of one of claims 1- 4, wherein the processor is configured to determine the difference based on a first sample of the first sensor data stream and a second sample of the second sensor data stream, the first sample and the second sample corresponding to a same time index.
6. The autonomous vehicle of claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to detect the abnormal condition based on the difference exceeding a predetermined threshold.
7. The autonomous vehicle of one of claims 1 - 6, wherein the processor is configured to determine the difference based on a detection of a missing sample within the first sensor data stream.
8. The autonomous vehicle of one of claims 1 - 7, wherein the first sensor and the second sensor use one or more different sensor characteristics to detect the same type of information.
9. The autonomous vehicle of claim 8, wherein the first sensor is associated with the abnormal condition, and wherein the processor, in response to the detection of the abnormal condition, is configured to perform a transformation of the second sensor data stream to produce a replacement version of the first sensor data stream.
10. The autonomous vehicle of one of claims 1 - 9, wherein the second sensor is a redundant version of the first sensor.
11. The autonomous vehicle of one of claims 1 - 10, wherein the processor, in response to the detection of the abnormal condition, is configured to perform a diagnostic routine on the first sensor, the second sensor, or both to resolve the abnormal condition.
12. A method of operating an autonomous vehicle, comprising: producing, via a first sensor, a first sensor data stream from one or more environmental inputs external to the autonomous vehicle while the autonomous vehicle is in an operational driving state;
producing, via a second sensor, a second sensor data stream from the one or more environmental inputs external to the autonomous vehicle while the autonomous vehicle is in the operational driving state, the first sensor and the second sensor being configured to detect a same type of information;
detecting an abnormal condition based on a difference between the first sensor data stream and the second sensor data stream; and
switching among the first sensor, the second sensor, or both as an input to control the autonomous vehicle in response to the detected abnormal condition.
13. The method of claim 12, comprising:
capturing a first set of data values within the first sensor data stream over a sampling time window; and
capturing a second set of data values within the second sensor data stream over the sampling time window,
wherein detecting the abnormal condition comprises determining a deviation between the first set of data values and the second set of data values.
14. The method of claim 13, comprising:
controlling a duration of the sampling time window responsive to a driving condition.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein a duration of the sampling time window is predetermined.
16. The method of one of claims 12-15, wherein the difference is based on a first sample of the first sensor data stream and a second sample of the second sensor data stream, the first sample and the second sample corresponding to a same time index.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein detecting the abnormal condition comprises determining whether the difference exceeds a
predetermined threshold.
18. The method of one of claims 12 - 17, wherein the difference is based on a detection of a missing sample within the first sensor data stream.
19. The method of one of claims 12 - 18, wherein the first sensor and the second sensor use one or more different sensor characteristics to detect the same type of information.
20. The method of claim 19, comprising:
performing, in response to the detection of the abnormal condition, a transformation of the second sensor data stream to produce a replacement version of the first sensor data stream, wherein the first sensor is associated with the abnormal condition.
21. The method of one of claims 12 - 20, wherein the second sensor is a redundant version of the first sensor.
22. The method of one of claims 12 - 21, comprising:
performing, in response to the detection of the abnormal condition, a diagnostic routine on the first sensor, the second sensor, or both to resolve the abnormal condition.
23. One or more non-transitory storage media storing instructions which, when executed by one or more computing devices, cause performance of the method recited in any of claims 12-22.
</claims>
</document>
