<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,G06T7/00,G06T7/10,G06T7/33,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
FLORENT, RAOUL
DRIES, JOHAN
VUURBERG EDWARD
HOLTHUIZEN, RONALDUS
HOMAN, ROBERT
CHATTERJEA, ANINDITA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66102012
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POSITIONING OF AN X-RAY IMAGING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to positioning of an X-ray imaging system. In order to provide an improved relative positioning of the X-ray imaging system for spine interventions, a device (10) for positioning of an X-ray imaging system is provided. The device comprises a data storage unit (12), a processing unit (14) and an output unit (16). The data storage unit is configured to store and provide 3D image data (18) of a spine region of interest of a subject comprising a part of a spine structure, the spine structure comprising at least one vertebra. The processing unit is configured to select at least one vertebra of the spine structure as target vertebra; to segment at least the target vertebra in the 3D image data; wherein the segmentation comprises identifying at least one anatomic feature of the target vertebra; to define a position of a predetermined reference line based on a spatial arrangement of the at least one anatomic feature; and to determine a target viewing direction of an X-ray imaging system based on the reference line. The output unit is configured to provide the target viewing direction for an X-ray imaging system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device (10) for positioning of an X-ray imaging system, the device comprising:
a data storage unit (12);
a processing unit (14); and
an output unit (16);
wherein the data storage unit is configured to store and provide 3D image data (18) of a spine region of interest of a subject comprising a part of a spine structure, the spine structure comprising at least one vertebra;
wherein the processing unit is configured to select at least one vertebra of the spine structure as target vertebra; to segment at least the target vertebra in the 3D image data; wherein the segmentation comprises identifying at least one anatomic feature of the target vertebra; to define a position of a predetermined reference line based on a spatial
arrangement of the at least one anatomic feature; and to determine a target viewing direction of an X-ray imaging system based on the reference line; and
wherein the output unit is configured to provide the target viewing direction for an X-ray imaging system.
2. Device according to claim 1, wherein it is further provided:
an input unit (20);
wherein the input unit is configured to provide a spatial relation between the 3D image data and the X-ray imaging system; and
wherein the processing unit is configured to determine a spatial relation of a current viewing direction of the X-ray imaging system and the target viewing direction; and to convert the spatial relation into a movement vector; and wherein the processing unit is configured to control a movement of the X-ray imaging system and the subject in relation to each other according to the movement vector.
3. Device according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the processing unit is configured to identify, as the at least one anatomic feature, surfaces of end plates of the at least one vertebra, and to identify a pair of pedicle portions of the at least one vertebra, and to identify a spinous process between the end plates of the at least one vertebra; and
wherein the processing unit is also configured to define, as the reference line, a line running between the pedicle portions through the spinous process and parallel to the surfaces of the end plates.
4. Device according to one of the preceding claims, wherein an interface unit is provided that is configured to receive a user's input for a selection of the at least one vertebra of the spine structure as the target vertebra.
5. Device according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the data storage unit is configured to store a determined target viewing direction in relation to a subject and to use the stored determined target viewing direction for a further subject;
wherein the processing unit is configured to spatially register the further subject to the X-ray system and to adapt the determined target viewing direction to a current spatial arrangement of the further subject.
6. A medical imaging arrangement (100) for spine interventions, the arrangement comprising:
an imaging system (102) with an X-ray source (104) and an X-ray detector (106) configured to acquire X-ray images of a subject's anatomy; and
a device (10) for positioning of an X-ray imaging system according to one of the preceding claims;
wherein the X-ray source, together with the X-ray detector, and a subject are movable in relation to each other; and
wherein the X-ray source, together with the X-ray detector, and the subject are movable according to a target viewing direction determined by the device for positioning of an X-ray imaging system.
7. Medical imaging arrangement according to claim 6, wherein the imaging system is also configured to provide 3D data of the subject's anatomy; and
wherein the processing unit is configured to compute the 3D image data based on the 3D data.
8. Medical imaging arrangement according to claim 6 or 7, wherein for providing the spatial relation between the 3D image data and the imaging system, at least one current 2D X-ray image is provided by the imaging system and the at least one current 2D X-ray image is registered with the 3D image data;
wherein a feature is identified in the at least one current 2D X-ray image and wherein the feature of the at least one current 2D X-ray image is registered with a matching feature in the 3D image data;
wherein the determined target viewing direction is adapted according to the registration of the 3D image data and the at least one current 2D X-ray image; and
wherein the at least one current 2D X-ray image is registered with the 3D image data on a per-vertebra basis.
9. Medical imaging arrangement according to claim 8, wherein the feature is a plurality of screws; and
wherein the processing unit is configured to compute a 3D reconstruction of the screws based on at least two 2D X-ray images from different directions; and to register the reconstructed screws with the 3D image data.
10. Medical imaging arrangement according to one of the claims 6 to 9, wherein it is provided:
an optical imaging system (108);
wherein the optical imaging system is configured to track the subject; and wherein the processing unit is configured to use a detected position of the subject for the registration steps of registering the at least one 2D X-ray image with the 3D image data.
11. A method (200) for X-ray imaging of a spine structure, comprising the following steps:
al) providing (202) 3D image data of a spine region of interest of a subject comprising a part of a spine structure, the spine structure comprising at least one vertebra; b) selecting (204) at least one vertebra of the spine structure as target vertebra; c) segmenting (206) at least the target vertebra in the 3D image data; wherein the segmenting comprises identifying at least one anatomic feature of the target vertebra;
d) defining (208) a position of a predetermined reference line based on a spatial arrangement of the at least one anatomic feature; and
el) determining (210) a target viewing direction of an X-ray imaging system based on the reference line.
12. Method according to claim 11, wherein it is further provided:
a2) providing (212) a spatial relation between the 3D image data and the X-ray imaging system;
e2) determining (214) a spatial relation of a current viewing direction of the X-ray imaging system and the target viewing direction and converting the spatial relation into a movement vector; and
f) moving (216) the X-ray imaging system and the subject in relation to each other according to the movement vector.
13. Method according to claim 11 or 12, wherein the segmenting in step c) comprises identifying (218):
cl) surfaces of end plates of the at least one vertebra; and
c2) a pair of pedicle portions of the at least one vertebra; and
c3) a spinous process between the end plates of the at least one vertebra; and wherein the defining of the reference line in step d) comprises defining (220), as the reference line, a line running between the pedicle portions through the spinous process and parallel to the surfaces of the end plates.
14. A computer program element for controlling an apparatus according to one of the claims 1 to 10, which, when being executed by a processing unit, is adapted to perform the method steps of one of the claims 11 to 13.
15. A computer readable medium having stored the program element of claim 14.
</claims>
</document>
