<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,G06Q10/06,G06Q30/02,G06Q50/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE HOTEL COMMUNICATION NETWORK, INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEHMKE, JAMES
BIDNER, Kevin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72608519
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MANAGING HOTEL GUEST DEPARTURES WITHIN AN AUTOMATED GUEST SATISFACTION AND SERVICES SCHEDULING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
The techniques herein are directed generally to managing hotel guest departures within an automated guest satisfaction and services scheduling system. In particular, in the present disclosure, for instance, the techniques herein provide a method and system to allow guests to easily manage and schedule their departure (check-out) through the interactive interface. The interface may include various modal notifications regarding check-out options, such as requesting the guest to enter their departure time preferences. The system also facilitates notification of a housekeeping services scheduler, and further allows the hotel to incentivize or monetize different check-out times.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A system, comprising:
a server; and
a plurality of communication terminals in communication with the server, each of the communication terminals having a graphical user interface (GUI) and being associated with a respective room of a plurality of hotel rooms of a hotel;
wherein the server is configured to receive registration information when a guest checks into the hotel, the registration information including an identification of the guest and a particular assigned room of the plurality of hotel rooms;
wherein the server is configured to identify a particular communication terminal of the plurality of communication terminals that is associated with the particular assigned room;
wherein the particular communication terminal is configured to present an interactive interface on a corresponding GUI of the particular communication terminal, the presented interactive interface querying the guest to select a checkout time from a plurality of options for a date of departure of the guest, the plurality of options comprising a hotel standard checkout time and one or more later checkout times than the hotel standard checkout time;
wherein the particular communication terminal is configured to receive a selection of a particular checkout time and to share the selection of the particular checkout time with the server; and
wherein the server is configured to provide the selection of the particular checkout time for the guest for the particular assigned room with a hotel service scheduler.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the particular communication terminal is configured to present costs associated with selection of the one or more later checkout times within the interactive interface.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the costs associated with selection of the one or more later checkout times are one of either static costs or dynamic costs based on demand.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of options for selection further comprise one or more earlier checkout times than the hotel standard checkout time.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the particular communication terminal is configured to present incentives associated with selection of the one or more earlier checkout times within the interactive interface, and wherein the incentives are one of either static incentives or dynamic incentives based on demand.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the plurality of options for selection further comprise the one or more earlier checkout times in response to a push from the server based on demand.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein on the date of departure of the guest, the particular communication terminal is configured to present, within the interactive interface, a checking out option, wherein in response to receiving a selection of the checking out option, the communication terminal is configured to share the selection of the checking out option with the server; and
wherein the server is configured to provide the selection of the checking out option for the guest for the particular assigned room with the hotel service scheduler.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein in response to receiving a selection of the checking out option, the communication terminal is configured to set one or more controlled devices within the particular assigned room.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein on the date of departure of the guest, the particular communication terminal is configured to present, within the interactive interface, a checking-out-soon option indicative of an advance time until the guest is checking out and a selectable request to initiate one or more services from the hotel consisting of: valet services, bellhop services, and disability assistance;
wherein in response to receiving a selection of the checking-out-soon option, the communication terminal is configured to share the request to initiate one or more services with the server; and
wherein the server is configured to provide the selection of the checking-out-soon option for the guest for the particular assigned room with one or more systems providing the one or more services of the request.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the advance time is selectable by the guest through the interactive interface.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the communication terminal is configured to detect that the guest is still within the particular assigned room after passage of the particular checkout time, and in response, to notify the guest of the passage of the particular checkout time.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the particular communication terminal is configured to present, on the interactive interface in response to passage of the particular checkout time, an updated plurality of options for a revised checkout time, the updated plurality of options comprising one or more later checkout times than the particular checkout time and associated costs.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the communication terminal is configured to notify the guest of the passage of the particular checkout time after a threshold time past the particular checkout time based on demand for the particular assigned room.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein on the date of departure of the guest, the
communication terminal is configured to present, on the interactive interface, an option for the guest to leave a review regarding the hotel via the interactive interface.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein on a night immediately preceding the date of departure, the communication terminal is configured, in response to the guest not having yet selected the particular checkout time, to force the guest to select the particular checkout time prior to allowing any other functionality of the communication terminal.
16. A method, comprising:
receiving, at a server, registration information when a guest checks into a hotel, the registration information including an identification of the guest and a particular assigned room of a plurality of hotel rooms of the hotel;
identifying, by the server, a particular communication terminal of a plurality of communication terminals in communication with the server that is associated with the particular assigned room, wherein each of the communication terminals has a graphical user interface (GUI) and is associated with a respective room of the plurality of hotel rooms of the hotel;
causing, by the server, the particular communication terminal to present an interactive interface on a corresponding GUI of the particular communication terminal, the presented interactive interface querying the guest to select a checkout time from a plurality of options for a date of departure of the guest, the plurality of options comprising a hotel standard checkout time and one or more later checkout times than the hotel standard checkout time;
receiving, by the server from the particular communication terminal, a selection of a particular checkout time; and
providing, by the server, the selection of the particular checkout time for the guest for the particular assigned room with a hotel service scheduler.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein costs are associated with selection of the one or more later checkout times, and wherein the costs are one of either static costs or dynamic costs based on demand set by the server.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the plurality of options for selection further comprise one or more earlier checkout times than the hotel standard checkout time, and wherein incentives are associated with selection of the one or more earlier checkout times, and wherein the incentives are one of either static incentives or dynamic incentives based on demand set by the server.
19. A method, comprising:
receiving, at a particular communication terminal of a plurality of communication terminals, identification of a guest, wherein the particular communication terminal is associated with a particular room of a plurality of hotel rooms of a hotel, and wherein the guest has checked into the hotel and has been assigned to the particular room;
presenting, on a corresponding graphical user interface (GUI) of the particular communication terminal, an interactive interface querying the guest to select a checkout time from a plurality of options for a date of departure of the guest, the plurality of options comprising a hotel standard checkout time and one or more later checkout times than the hotel standard checkout time; receiving, on the interactive interface, a selection of a particular checkout time; and
sharing, from the particular communication terminal, the selection of the particular checkout time with the server to cause the server to provide the selection of the particular checkout time for the guest for the particular assigned room with a hotel service scheduler.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising:
presenting, on the date of departure of the guest, within the interactive interface, a checking out option;
receiving a selection of the checking out option; and
sharing the selection of the checking out option with the server, causing the server to provide the selection of the checking out option for the guest for the particular assigned room with the hotel service scheduler.
</claims>
</document>
