<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08B15/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS
SLUP, SEBASTIAN
GUSTOF, GRZEGORZ
FURMAN, PIOTR
WARZOCHA, JAKUB
</assignee>

<inventors>
SLUP, SEBASTIAN
GUSTOF, GRZEGORZ
FURMAN, PIOTR
WARZOCHA, JAKUB
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64109992
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS, DEVICES, AND METHODS TO ELECTRONICALLY LURE PEOPLE AT A BUILDING
</title>

<abstract>
A presence of a person at a first location within the building is detected using a sensor. Whether the presence of the person at the first location is acceptable is determined in response to detecting the presence of the person at the first location. Then, in response to determining that the presence of the person at the first location is unacceptable, an output device is triggered to output an electronic lure signal to lure the person to a second location that is distant from the first location. The electronic lure signal is based on a category of the person.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer-readable medium with instructions stored thereon, the instructions executable by a processor to:
reference a sensor signal to detect a presence of a person at a first location;
determine whether the presence of the person at the first location is acceptable in response to a detection of the presence of the person at the first location; and
in response to a determination that the presence of the person at the first location is unacceptable, trigger an output device to output an electronic lure signal to lure the person to a second location that is distant from the first location, wherein the electronic lure signal is selected based on a determined category of the person.
2. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions are to assign the person to the category.
3. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 2, wherein the instructions are to provide the electronic lure signal further based on a different category of a different person who is not to be lured to the second location.
4. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions are to include in the electronic lure signal a sound that is based on a sound captured by a microphone at a building that contains at least one of the first location and the second location.
5. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions are to include in the electronic lure signal a sound that is based on an image captured by a camera at a building that contains at least one of the first location and the second location.
6. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1 , wherein the electronic lure signal represents an audible stimulus, and wherein the output device comprises a speaker to output the audible stimulus.
7. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1 , wherein the electronic lure signal represents a visible stimulus, and wherein the output device comprises a display device or a lighting device to output the visible stimulus.
8. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1 , wherein the instructions are further to trigger an access-control signal to control a physical access mechanism at a building that contains at least one of the first location and the second location.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the physical access mechanism comprises an electronically lockable door, wherein the access-control signal is to unlock the electronically lockable door to allow the person to move towards the second location.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the physical access mechanism comprises an electronically lockable door, wherein the access-control signal is to lock the electronically lockable door to stop the person from moving away from the second location.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions are to determine whether the presence of the person at the first location is acceptable based on the category.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the sensor signal represents an image captured by a camera, and wherein the instructions are to perform image analysis on the image to assign the person to the category.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the sensor signal represents a sound captured by a microphone, and wherein the instructions are to perform audio analysis on the sound to assign the person to the category.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions are to trigger a physical access mechanism at the second location to prevent egress of the person from the second location.
15. A system comprising:
a plurality of sensors distributed throughout a building;
a plurality of output devices distributed throughout the building; and
a processor connected to the plurality of sensors and the plurality of output devices, the processor configured to detect a person at a first location in the building using at least one sensor of the plurality of sensors, to determine whether the person is authorized to be at the first location, and output an electronic lure signal via at least one output device of the plurality of output devices to lure the person to a second location away from the first location in response to determining that the person is not authorized to be at the first location , wherein the electronic lure signal is based on a category of the person.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one output device comprises a speaker, and wherein the processor is further configured to identify as the second location a trappable location in the building based on a sound path from the speaker to the first location, and wherein the processor is to provide the electronic lure signal as representative of an audible stimulus configured to lure the person towards the trappable location.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one output device comprises a speaker, and wherein the processor is to provide the electronic lure signal as representative of an audible stimulus configured to repel the person away from the first location and to lure the person to the second location.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one output device comprises a display device or a lighting device, and wherein the processor is to provide the electronic lure signal as representative of a visible stimulus.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one output device comprises an electronic lock of an electrically lockable door of the building, and wherein the processor is to provide the electronic lure signal as representative of a locking or unlocking signal of the electrically lockable door.
20. A method to provide security to a building, the method comprising:
detecting a presence of a person at a first location within the building using a sensor;
determining whether the presence of the person at the first location is acceptable in response to detecting the presence of the person at the first location; and
in response to determining that the presence of the person at the first location is unacceptable, triggering an output device to output an electronic lure signal to lure the person to a second location that is distant from the first location , wherein the electronic lure signal is based on a category of the person.
</claims>
</document>
