<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01F23/00,G01G19/415,G01G23/14,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BARVENTORY CORP.
</assignee>

<inventors>
PETERS, Michael Wayne
STOODLEY, Jeffery Dean
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73051044
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MANAGEMENT OF SUBSTANCES
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for real time inventory monitoring and acquisition of substances is described. The system includes a monitoring device for monitoring a weight or volume of the substance, and an interconnected database and processing subsystem for calculating a volume, spillage, revenue, cost of consumption and remaining stock of the substance. The method includes storing calculation data related to a substance on a database, scanning or weighing a container holding the substance, and determining the volume, revenue, cost of consumption, loss of stock, and remaining stock of the substance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for real-time monitoring of a consumption of a plurality of substances comprising: a monitoring device, wherein the monitoring device measures a weight of one of the plurality of substances;
a consumption analysis subsystem coupled to the monitoring device via one or more interconnections,
wherein the consumption analysis subsystem comprises a database and a processing subsystem coupled to each other via one or more analysis subsystem interconnections, further wherein:
the database stores one or more calculation data related to the plurality of substances, wherein:
the one or more calculation data comprises at least one of:
one or more density or specific gravity data;
one or more revenue data;
one or more cost data; and
one or more inventory data;
the monitoring device transmits a measurement data related to the weight via the one or more interconnections to the consumption analysis subsystem; and the processing subsystem:
receives the transmitted measurement data via the one or more analysis subsystem interconnections;
retrieves at least one portion of the one or more calculation data from the database via the one or more analysis subsystem interconnections; and determines, based on at least one portion of the measurement data and the at least one portion of the one or more calculation data, at least one of:
a volume of the one of the plurality of substances;
a generated revenue related to the one of the plurality of substances;
a cost of consumption related to the one of the plurality of substances; and
a remaining stock of the one of the plurality of substances.
2. The system of claim 1 , wherein the plurality of substances comprises a plurality of beverages or food.
3. The system of claim 1 , wherein the weight of one of the plurality of substances comprises the weight of a container holding a volume of one of the plurality of substances.
4. The system of claim 1 , wherein the monitoring device comprises a tabletop monitoring
device and the tabletop monitoring device further comprises a scanner for optically scanning and identifying the one of the plurality of substances.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the monitoring device comprises a keg monitoring device.
6. The system of claim 3, wherein the processing subsystem determines a volume of spillage.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the calculation data further comprises:
one or more temperature data; and
one or more distance data related to a distance from the container to a tap; and the processing subsystem determines a volume of foam based on the calculation data; and the determination of the volume of spillage is based on the determination of the volume of foam.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein the calculation data further comprises:
one or more temperature data; and
one or more distance data related to the distance from the container to a tap; and the processing subsystem determines a volume of foam based on the calculation data.
9. The system of claim 1 , wherein measurement data produced by the monitoring device is initially in an analog format, and the measurement data is converted from an analog format to a digital format by an A/D converter before transmission to the processing subsystem.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the conversion from the analog format to the digital format enables transmission over an extended distance.
11. The system of claim 1 , wherein the monitoring device performs an auto-tare operation.
12. The system of claim 2, wherein the processing subsystem analyzes the received
measurement data to determine when a pour event occurs.
13. The system of claim 3, wherein the processing subsystem analyses the received
measurement data to determine when a replacement of the container occurs.
14. The system of claim 1 , further wherein: the processing subsystem is coupled to an inventory management system via the one or more interconnections; and
the processing subsystem and the inventory management system perform the determination of the remaining stock of the one of the plurality of substances.
15. The system of claim 1 , further wherein the processing subsystem is coupled to a vendor subsystem via the one or more interconnections and the processing subsystem transmits a request to the vendor subsystem to place an order for the one of the plurality of substances based on the determination of the remaining stock.
16. The system of claim 1 , further wherein: a vendor subsystem is coupled to the consumption analysis subsystem via one or more interconnections; and
the processing subsystem retrieves an information about one of the plurality of substances from the vendor subsystems via the one or more interconnections for storage in the database.
17. The system of claim 1 , further wherein the processing subsystem determines a time to
exhaustion based on the determination of the remaining stock.
18. The system of claim 18, wherein the determination of the time to exhaustion comprises using a machine learning technique.
19. The system of claim 1 , wherein:
the processing subsystem is coupled to a billing subsystem via the one or more interconnections;
the processing subsystem receives billing data from the billing subsystem via the one or more interconnections;
the processing subsystem compares the received billing data to the determined generated revenue; and
the processing subsystem determines the occurrence of a fraud event based on the comparison.
20. A system for real-time monitoring of a consumption of a plurality of substances comprising: a monitoring device, wherein the monitoring device measures a fill level of one of the plurality of substances; and
a database and a processing subsystem coupled to each other via one or more interconnections, wherein:
the database stores one or more calculation data related to the plurality of substances, wherein:
the one or more calculation data comprises at least one of:
one or more density or specific gravity data; one or more revenue data;
one or more cost data; and
one or more inventory data;
the monitoring device transmits a measurement data related to the fill level via the one or more interconnections to the processing subsystem; and the processing subsystem:
receives the transmitted measurement data via the one or more interconnections;
retrieves at least one portion of the one or more calculation data from the database via the one or more interconnections; and determines, based on at least one portion of the measurement data and the at least one portion of the one or more calculation data, at least one of:
a volume of the one of the plurality of substances;
a generated revenue related to the one of the plurality of substances;
a cost of consumption related to the one of the plurality of substances; and
a remaining stock of the one of the plurality of substances.
21. A system to enable real-time monitoring of a consumption of a plurality of beverages
comprising:
one or more monitoring devices, wherein:
the one or more monitoring devices comprise at least one keg monitoring device or at least one tabletop monitoring device; and
the one or more monitoring devices measure one or more weights corresponding to one or more containers holding one or more volumes of one or more of said plurality of beverages;
a database and a processing subsystem coupled to each other via one or more interconnections, wherein:
the database stores one or more calculation data related to the plurality of beverages, wherein the one or more calculation data comprises at least one of: one or more density data;
one or more revenue data;
one or more cost data; and one or more inventory data;
a first of the one or more monitoring devices transmits a measurement data related to a first of the one or more weights to the processing subsystem via the one or more interconnections; and
the processing subsystem:
receives the transmitted measurement data;
retrieves at least one portion of the one or more calculation data from the database via the one or more interconnections; and calculates, based on at least one portion of the measurement data and the at least one portion of the one or more calculation data, at least one of:
a first of the one or more volumes of the one of said plurality of beverages;
a generated revenue related to the one of the plurality of beverages;
a cost of consumption related to the one of the plurality of beverages; and
a remaining stock of the one of the plurality of beverages.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein:
each of the one or more monitoring devices has an identifier;
and further within:
the database stores the identifier and a corresponding calibration data for each of the one or more monitoring devices;
a first of the one or more monitoring devices transmits a first
corresponding identifier to the processing subsystem;
the processing subsystem retrieves a first of the one or more stored calibration data from the database based on the received first corresponding identifier; and
the processing subsystem transmits the retrieved first calibration data to the first monitoring device.
24. The system of claim 22, further wherein the processing subsystem is coupled to an inventory management system via the one or more interconnections; and the processing subsystem and the inventory management system perform the determination of the remaining stock of the one of the plurality of beverages.
25. The system of claim 22, further wherein the processing subsystem is coupled to an ordering subsystem via the one or more interconnections; and
the processing subsystem transmits a request to the ordering system to place an order for the one of the plurality of beverages based on the determination of the remaining stock.
26. The system of claim 22, further wherein the processing subsystem is coupled to a
vendor subsystem via the one or more interconnections; and
the processing subsystem transmits a request to the vendor subsystem to place an order for the one of the plurality of beverages based on the determination of the remaining stock.
27. The system of claim 22, further wherein the processing subsystem determines a time to exhaustion based on the determination of the remaining stock.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein the determination of the time to exhaustion comprises using a machine learning technique.
29. The system of claim 22, wherein the processing subsystem is coupled to a billing
subsystem via the one or more interconnections;
the processing subsystem receives billing data from the billing subsystem via the one or more interconnections;
the processing subsystem compares the received billing data to the determined generated revenue; and
the processing subsystem determines the occurrence of a fraud event based on the comparison.
30. A method for live monitoring a sale of a substance comprising:
storing one or more calculation data related to a plurality of substances on a database;
scanning one of the plurality of substances to identify the substance; transmitting a measurement data related to the weight of the substance to a processing subsystem;
retrieving at least one portion of the one or more calculation data from the database by the processing subsystem;
determining, based on at least one portion of the measurement data and the retrieved at least one portion of the one or more calculation data, at least one of: a volume of the one of said plurality of substances;
a generated revenue related to the one of the plurality of substances; a cost of consumption related to the one of the plurality of substances; and
a remaining stock of the one of the plurality of substances.
</claims>
</document>
