<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N1/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BURNAM, MICHAEL
GANG, ELI
</assignee>

<inventors>
BURNAM, MICHAEL
GANG, ELI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72752022
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AN INTELLIGENTLY, CONTINUOUSLY AND PHYSIOLOGICALLY CONTROLLED PACEMAKER AND METHOD OF OPERATION OF THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
A pacemaker control system includes a pacemaker; a plurality of sensors which are internal to the pacemaker, a plurality of sensors which are external to the pacemaker, a circuit for entering patient reports; and a circuit for using artificial intelligence to process outputs from the plurality sensors internal and external to the pacemaker and from the circuit for entering patient reports, which are collectively identified as a labeled dataset, to reiteratsvely learn a function which determines the labeled dataset most likely to provide optimal pacemaker function for the patient. The means for using artificial intelligence comprises a database of archive outputs from the plurality sensors internal and external to the pacemaker and from the means for entering patient reports for the patient used for optimization of rate modulation to intelligently, continuously and physiologically control the pacemaker.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for operating a pacemaker in a patient comprising:
monitoring systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, and/or mean arterial pressure while using one or more rate modulation sensor outputs from one or more corresponding sensors internal to the pacemaker to improve the accuracy in dynamic states, including when the patient exercises: and
controlling rate modulation in the pacemaker In response to the monitored systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, and/or mean arterial pressure and one or more corresponding sensors internal to the pacemaker to selectively prevent . pacing that results in .reduced systolic blood pressure reduced diastolic blood pressure, and/or reduced mean arterial pressure below a predetermined amount, control of the rate modulation being achieved by either inhibiting rate modulation In the pacemaker or by changing rate modulation parameters,.
2. The method of claim 1 where monitoring blood pressure comprises monitoring systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, mean arterial pressure, calculated peripheral resistance, and/or calculated systemic vascular resistance, and where controlling rate modulation in the pacemaker comprises controlling Right Atria! pacing as a treatment for drug resistant hypertension and/or diastolic heart failure (HFpEF 3 The method of claim 2 where controlling right atrial pacing as a treatment for drug resistant hypertension and/or diastolic heart failure (HFpEF) comprises controlling right atrial pacing to reduce a need for medications and/or improving exercise performance
4, The method of claim 1 where controlling rate modulation in the pacemaker in response to the monitored blood pressure comprises communicating between the pacemaker and an external control circuit
5 The method o! claim 4 where communicating between the pacemaker and an external control circuit comprises communicating via a wireless link, temporary wires with adhesive pads, permanent wires, or an optical linkage with a fiber optic cable
8 The method of claim 1 where monitoring blood pressure comprises monitoring blood pressure with a pneumatic cuff, .or devices without pneumatic cuffs including a wristwatch-type sensor using two photoplethysmogram (PPG) signals as sources for a blood pressure estimation, an electro-optical sensor, or an intra-cardiac pressure sensor in one or more heart chambers.
7. The method of claim 1 where controlling rate modulation in the pacemaker comprises controlling rate modulation in using one or more rate modulation sensors worn by the patient and not in the pacemaker itself, including an accelerometer, a body position sensor, a respiratory rate monitor, a cardiac impedance sensor, pulse oximeter, an ECG monitor for heart rate and arrhythmias, intracardiac chamber pressure sensors, such as RA, LA, RV, or IV, or intracardiac chamber volume measurements in ail four chambers measured by either intra-cavatary impedance, capacitance, or ultrasound.
8 The method of claim 1 further comprising using artificial intelligence to make decisions regarding an optimal patient-specific pacing rate and modality pacing rate taking all variables into consideration selected from the group including the patient's age, race, sex, prior history of heart disease, prior known Left Ventricular function, medications, type, model, and manufacturer of pacemaker, and sensor type inputs,
whereby artificial intelligence is utilized to process all variables to arrive at the best possible pacing rate at each moment of time at a sensed level and type of exercise for the patient, taking into account any prior attempts by the patient to perform the same activity, to anticipate the needs for that similar exercise session, any recent changes in the patient's health or medication that might impact exercise performance, the ambient oxygen level and altitude, the temperature of the environment.
9. A computer implemented method for optimizing the function of a patients pacemaker comprising:
utilizing an implanted pacemaker or dual chamber automatic cardiodefibri!lator with rate modulation; and
controlling pacemaker rate modulation to enhance exercise ability by using data obtained from a sensor platform externa! to the pacemaker by using a reported patient's subjective sense of comfort, measured exercise duration, optima! workload, optimal heart rate, optimal oxygen consumption, respiratory rate, perspiration, lowest possible add production, skin pH, sweat Na, K, Cl, ammonia, glucose and/or skin lactic acid, or metabolic measurements including but not limited to glucose and !actic acid in whole blood, capillary blood, serum, or plasma.
10. The method of claim 9 further comprising optimizing blood pressure at rest and during exercise by using data obtained from a sensor platform external to the pacemaker by using a reported patient's subjective sense of comfort, measured exercise duration, optimal workload, optimal heart rate, optimal oxygen consumption, pulse oximetry, respiratory rate, perspiration, and/or lowest possible acid production.
11. The method of claim 9 further comprising archiving In a computer system data from ail sensors and patient inputs for all sessions.
12. The method of claim 9 where controlling pacemaker rate modulation is performed using data processing software controlled by artificial intelligence.
13. The method of claim 11 where controlling pacemaker rate modulation is performed using data processing software controlled by artificial intelligence data mining of all archived data.
14. The method of claim 9 where controlling pacemaker rate modulation is performed using machine learning from the archived data.
15. The method of claim 9 where controlling pacemaker rate modulation is performed using artificial intelligence to process ail available instantaneous and archived data to most probably achieve an ideal functional and physiological status of the patient.
16. The method of claim 9 where controlling pacemaker rate modulation is performed using encrypted pacemaker programming instructions.
17. The method of claim 16 further comprising communicating encrypted pacemaker programming commands wirelessly transmitted to the pacemaker.
18. The method of claim 16 further comprising decrypting programming commands to reprogram the pacemaker.
19. The method of claim 9 further comprising disabling any computer program in the pacemaker by artificial intelligence
20. The method of claim 9 further comprising allowing the supervising physician to directly alter programming of the pacemaker to override parameters relating to any ideal data set previously established.
21. The method of claim 9 further comprising remotely programming the pacemaker.
22. A pacemaker control system comprising:
a pacemaker;
a plurality of sensors which are infernal to the pacemaker;
a plurality of sensors which are external to the pacemaker;
means for entering patient reports; and
means for using artificial intelligence to process outputs from the plurality sensors internal and external to the pacemaker and from the means for entering patient reports, which are collectively identified as a labeled dataset, to reiteratively learn a function which determines the labeled dataset most likely to provide optimal cardiac function of the patient
23. The system of claim 22 wherein the means for using artificial intelligence comprises a database of archive outputs from the plurality sensors interna! and external to the pacemaker and from the means for entering patient reports for the patient used for optimization of rate modulation to intelligently, continuously and physiologically control the pacemaker.
</claims>
</document>
