<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B46/20,A61B46/27,A61B90/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SURGIBOX
OKAJIMA, Stephen, Michael
TEODORESCU, Debbie, Lin
TEODORESCU, Mike, Horia Mihail
</assignee>

<inventors>
OKAJIMA, Stephen
TEODORESCU, Mike
TEODORESCU, Debbie
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73051199
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR INTRAOPERATIVE ISOLATION AND CONTROL OF SURGICAL SITE ENVIRONMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A portable surgical system including a transparent and flexible plastic enclosure is disclosed. The enclosure is attached reversibly to the patient's body encompassing the surgical site such as to isolate and regulate the immediate environment of the surgical site, and to reduce bodily fluid splatters from the surgical site to the surgical providers. The enclosure includes an environmental control system configured to actively monitor and control the environment inside the enclosure such as to create and maintain essentially sterile conditions. The surgical systems can be used both for surgeries on a torso of a patient and on surgeries on arms or legs. The portable surgical system is lightweight and portable and can be used in conventional operating rooms to improve sterility, or in other circumstances where no operating room is available, such as field hospitals and for on the field surgeries.
</abstract>

<claims>
LIST OF CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A portable surgical system comprising:
(a) a flexible enclosure separating a surgical environment inside the enclosure from a user environment outside the enclosure, the enclosure comprising one or more areas of high optical clarity for viewing the inside of the enclosure;
wherein, while the surgical system is deployed in use, only the surgical site is included within the surgical enclosure, and the remainder of the patient body is essentially excluded from the surgical environment inside the enclosure;
(b). an environmental control system configured to supply air to the enclosure such as to create essentially sterile conditions inside the enclosure;
(c). one or more ports for accessing the surgical site; and
(d). an exhaust system configured to eliminate air from the enclosure,
wherein the exhaust system comprises one or more exhaust-channels disposed on the side and along the enclosure;
wherein the exhaust-channels comprise a plurality of holes disposed on one or more lines along the exhaust-channels, the holes being configured to allow air to flow from the enclosure into the exhaust-channels and further into the environment outside the enclosure.
2. The portable surgical system of claim 1, wherein the enclosure further comprises an air-supply-tube receiving air from the environmental control system and configured to create essentially uniform airflow over the surgical site.
3. The portable surgical system of claim 2, wherein the air-supply-tube is a flexible tube disposed above the surgical site and wherein the air-supply-tube comprises in whole or in part a plurality of perforations disposed along the air-supply-tube.
4. The portable surgical system of claim 3, wherein the distribution of the perforations along the air-supply-tube essentially follow an inverse of an elliptically shaped function or the positions of the perforations along the air-supply-tube (x1, x2, x3, x4,… xk) follow the specific set of mathematical expressions: x1 = F1(V, d, D, r, k, L); x2 = F2(V, d, D, r, k, L); x3 = F3(V, d, D, r, k, L);… xk = Fk(V, d, D, r, k, L) described in the description. 5. The portable surgical system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of holes disposed along the exhaust-channels follow an inverse of an elliptically shaped function, or wherein the position of the holes along one or more of the exhaust-channels mirror the positions of the perforations along the air-supply-tube, or wherein the spacings between holes along one or more of the lines of the exhaust channels follows the same proportions as the spacings between perforations along the air-supply-tube. 6. The portable surgical system of claim 1, wherein the exhaust-channels comprise one or more exhaust-valves configured to adjust the airflow magnitude into the exhaust-channels and wherein the environmental control system is configured to adjust the airflow magnitude into the air-supply-tube via a supply-valve. 7. The portable surgical system of claim 1, wherein the exhaust-channels comprise one or more filters for filtering unwanted substances and materials from the air coming out of the exhaust-channels. 8. The portable surgical system of claim 6, comprising a plurality of sensors further comprising one or more of the following: pressure sensors disposed in the enclosure; pressure sensors disposed in the channels or the air-supply-tube; airflow sensors configured to measure airflow at various points inside the enclosure, in the channel or in the air-supply-tube. 9. The portable surgical system of claim 8, further comprising a control system
configured to:
(a). receive from the sensors information about the enclosure environment;
(b). generate a sequence of action-steps leading to a desired enclosure environment, the actions steps comprising the controlling of airflow supply into the air-supply-tube and the controlling of exhaust airflow into exhaust-channels; (c). control the airflow supply into the air-supply-tube and the exhaust airflow into exhaust-channels such as to attain the desired enclosure environment. 10. The portable surgical system of claim 3, wherein the air-supply-tube further comprises one or more flow-guides and wherein each of the flow-guides is disposed on top of a corresponding perforation such as to guide the flow of air from the air-supply-tube into the enclosure. 11. The portable surgical system of claim 10, wherein each of the flow-guides comprises a mini-valve configured to control the magnitude of the airflow through the corresponding perforation on which the flow-guides is disposed on. 12. The portable surgical system of claim 11, wherein the environmental control system is configured to control the mini-valves via electrically controlled actuators. 13. The portable surgical system of claim 12, further comprising a control system configured to:
(a). receive from the sensors information about the enclosure environment;
(b). generate a sequence of action-steps leading to a desired enclosure environment, the actions steps comprising the controlling of airflow supply into the air-supply-tube by controlling the mini-valves;
(c). control the airflow supply into the air-supply-tube, the exhaust valves and the minivalves such as to attain the desired enclosure environment. 14. The portable surgical system of claim 12, wherein the exhaust-channels comprise one or more exhaust-valves configured to adjust the airflow magnitude into the exhaust-channels and wherein the environmental control system is configured to adjust the airflow magnitude into the air-supply-tube via a supply-valve. 15. The portable surgical system of claim 15, further comprising a control system configured to: (a). receive from the sensors information about the enclosure environment; (b). generate a sequence of actions leading to a desired enclosure environment, the actions comprising:
the controlling of airflow supply into the air-supply-tube by at least one of the following: controlling the mini-valves, controlling a supply-valve disposed in the environmental control system or on the air-supply-tube; and
the controlling of the exhaust-valves;
(c). control the airflow supply into the air-supply-tube, the exhaust valves and the minivalves such as to attain the desired enclosure environment. 16. The portable surgical system of claim 1, further comprising a fluids and debris elimination-channel which is communicating with the enclosure via a set of openings;
wherein the elimination-channel is configured to enable the elimination of blood and bodily fluids from the enclosure;
wherein the elimination channel is disposed in a lower part of the portable surgical system such as to collect the blood and bodily fluids accumulated into the enclosure as a result of the surgical procedure. 17. The portable surgical system of claim 16, wherein the elimination channel further comprises one or more of the following: a valve, a suction device, a reservoir for accumulating and storing fluids and debris. 18. A portable surgical system configured to be used either for performing surgical procedures on the torso of a patient or on a limb of a patient, the system comprising:
(a). a flexible enclosure separating a surgical environment inside the enclosure from a user environment outside the enclosure, the enclosure comprising one or more areas of high optical clarity for viewing the inside of the enclosure;
wherein, while the surgical system is deployed in use for surgical procedures on the torso of a patient, only the surgical site is included within the surgical enclosure, and the remainder of the patient body is essentially excluded from the surgical environment inside the enclosure; wherein, while the surgical system is deployed in use for surgical procedures on a limb of a patient, only the limb is included within the surgical enclosure
(b). an environmental control system configured to supply air to the enclosure such as to create essentially sterile conditions inside the enclosure;
(c). an exhaust system configured to eliminate air from the enclosure. 19. The portable surgical system of claim 18, wherein the exhaust system comprises one or more exhaust-channels disposed on the side and along the enclosure and wherein the exhaustchannels comprise a plurality of holes disposed along the exhaust-channels configured to allow air to flow from the enclosure into the exhaust-channels and further into the environment outside the enclosure. 20. A method of operating the portable surgical system of claim 15, the method comprising:
(a). measuring via the sensors a set of environmental parameters corresponding to an environmental status of the enclosure environment, the exhaust channels and the air-supply-tube;
(a). receiving at the environmental control system information about the environmental parameters measured in the enclosure, the exhaust channels and the air-supply-tube;
(b). analyzing the information received from the sensors regarding the environmental parameters;
(c). generating a sequence of actions leading to a desired environmental status of the enclosure environment;
(d). controlling the mini-valves, the supply-valves and the exhaust-valves according to the sequence of actions.
</claims>
</document>
