<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/332,G06F16/36,G06F40/35,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SINGAPORE UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY AND DESIGN
</assignee>

<inventors>
LUO, Jianxi
SARICA, Serhad
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74062108
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR CONDUCTING A BRAINSTORMING SESSION WITH A VIRTUAL EXPERT
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method of conducting a brainstorming session with a virtual expert includes obtaining a first knowledge graph including: vertices that are semantic entities in an expert vocabulary, qualitative relations between the entities, and edges that are weighted according to semantic similarity between the entities, said expert vocabulary being generated from a plurality of documents associated with the expert. The method further includes receiving input text from a user; processing the input text to determine one or more user-provided semantic entities; searching the first knowledge graph to determine a position or positions of the one or more user-provided semantic entities in the first knowledge graph; determining one or more suggested first semantic entities from the first knowledge graph based on their semantic similarity to the user-provided semantic entities; and displaying, to said user, a response including the one or more suggested first semantic entities.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of conducting a brainstorming session with a virtual expert, including :
(i) obtaining a first knowledge graph including : nodes that are semantic entities in an expert vocabulary, and edges that are weighted according to semantic similarity between the entities and that are labelled with one or more qualitative relations between the entities, said expert vocabulary being generated from a plurality of documents associated with, and/or authored by, one or more human experts;
(ii) receiving input text from a user;
(iii) processing the input text to determine one or more user-provided semantic entities;
(iv) searching the first knowledge graph to determine a position or positions of the one or more user-provided semantic entities in the first knowledge graph;
(v) determining one or more suggested first semantic entities from the first knowledge graph based on their semantic relatedness to the userprovided semantic entities; and
(vi) displaying, to said user, a response including the one or more suggested first semantic entities.
2. A computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of documents is associated with, and/or authored by, a single human expert.
3. A computer-implemented method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the response is a natural language response constructed from the one or more suggested first semantic entities.
4. A computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the one or more suggested first semantic entities are determined based on a high semantic similarity to the one or more user-provided semantic entities.
5. A computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein operations (ii)-(vi) are performed iteratively.
6. A computer-implemented method according to claim 5, including, after a predetermined number of iterations:
setting a distance threshold;
determining a first location corresponding to a centroid or medoid of vector representations of the user-provided semantic entities and the one or more suggested first semantic entities in a previous iteration;
determining a second location corresponding to a centroid or medoid of vector representations of the user-provided semantic entities and the one or more suggested first semantic entities in a current iteration; and
if the second location is less than the distance threshold from the first location, increasing the distance threshold.
7. A computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, including:
determining, in operation (iv), that one or more of the one or more userprovided semantic entities do not exist in the first knowledge graph; and for each said non-located user-provided semantic entity, searching a second knowledge graph to suggest one or more second semantic entities based on semantic relatedness to the non-located user-provided semantic entity, wherein the second knowledge graph is a general knowledge graph that is at least partly based on documents other than the documents associated with, and/or authored by, the one or more human experts. 8. A computer-implemented method of generating a knowledge graph for one or more human experts, including :
obtaining a plurality of documents associated with, and/or authored by, the one or more human experts;
executing a part-of-speech tagging process and a syntactic dependency determination process on the plurality of documents to generate an expert vocabulary;
training a language model from the expert vocabulary; and
generating, using the language model and the expert vocabulary, a knowledge graph, said knowledge graph including nodes that are semantic entities in the expert vocabulary, and edges that are weighted according to semantic similarity between the semantic entities, the edges being labelled with qualitative relations between the entities.
9. A method according to claim 8, wherein the plurality of documents are associated with, and/or authored by, a single human expert. 10. A system for conducting a brainstorming session with a virtual expert, comprising:
a knowledge retrieval module that is configured to:
(i) obtain a first knowledge graph including : nodes that represent semantic entities in an expert vocabulary, and edges that are weighted according to semantic similarity between the entities and that are labelled with one or more qualitative relations between the entities, said expert vocabulary being generated from a plurality of documents associated, and/or authored by, one or more human experts;
(ii) receive input text from a user;
(iii) process the input text to determine one or more user-provided semantic entities;
(iv) search the first knowledge graph to determine a position or positions of the one or more user-provided semantic entities in the first knowledge graph;
(v) determine one or more suggested first semantic entities from the first knowledge graph based on their semantic relatedness to the userprovided semantic entities; and (vi) display, to said user, a response including the one or more suggested first semantic entities.
11. A system according to claim 10, wherein the plurality of documents is associated with, and/or authored by, a single human expert.
12. A system according to claim 10 or claim 11, wherein the response is a natural language response constructed from the one or more suggested first semantic entities.
13. A system according to any one of claims 10 to 12, wherein the knowledge retrieval module is configured to determine the one or more suggested first semantic entities based on a high semantic similarity to the one or more user-provided semantic entities.
14. A system according to any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein the knowledge retrieval module is configured to perform operations (ii)-(vi) iteratively.
15. A system according to claim 14, wherein the knowledge retrieval module is configured to, after a predetermined number of iterations:
set a distance threshold;
determine a first location corresponding to a centroid or medoid of vector representations of the user-provided semantic entities and the one or more suggested first semantic entities in a previous iteration;
determine a second location corresponding to a centroid or medoid of vector representations of the user-provided semantic entities and the one or more suggested first semantic entities in a current iteration; and if the second location is less than the distance threshold from the first location, increase the distance threshold.
16. A system according to any one of claims 10 to 15, including a knowledge extension module that is configured to: determine, in operation (iv), that one or more of the one or more userprovided semantic entities do not exist in the first knowledge graph; and for each said non-located user-provided semantic entity, search a second knowledge graph to suggest one or more second semantic entities based on semantic relatedness to the non-located user-provided semantic entity, wherein the second knowledge graph is a general knowledge graph that is at least partly based on documents other than the documents associated with, and/or authored by, the one or more human experts. 17. A system according to any one of claims 10 to 16, including a knowledge representation module that is configured to generate the first knowledge graph by:
obtaining a plurality of documents associated with the one or more human experts;
executing a part-of-speech tagging process and a syntactic dependency determination process on the plurality of documents to generate an expert vocabulary;
constructing a language model from the expert vocabulary; and generating, using the language model and the expert vocabulary, the first knowledge graph.
</claims>
</document>
