<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/242,G06F16/2452,G06F16/25,G06F16/84
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRITZLER, MAREIKE
YU DAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67515112
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
KNOWLEDGE BASED INFORMATION MODELING SERVICE PLATFORM FOR AUTONOMOUS SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for knowledge based information modeling using a semantic binding engine that generates a binding configuration based on a legacy domain semantic model extracted from a controller of an autonomous system and a knowledge graph extracted from a knowledge repository of domain knowledge related to the autonomous system. The binding configuration represents a mapping of standardized model instance components to a component of the legacy domain semantic model. An adapter with a server processes communications related to a standardized information model, including information requests that are translated to a set of process variables of the legacy domain semantic model using the binding configuration.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A system for knowledge based information modeling, comprising:
at least one storage device storing a knowledge repository and computerexecutable instructions configured as one or more modules; and
at least one processor configured to access the at least one storage device and execute the instructions, wherein the modules comprise:
a semantic binding engine configured to generate a binding configuration based on a legacy domain semantic model extracted from a controller of an autonomous system and a knowledge graph extracted from a knowledge repository of domain knowledge related to the autonomous system, wherein the binding configuration represents a mapping of standardized model instance components to a component of the legacy domain semantic model;
an adapter comprising:
a server for processing communications related to a standardized information model, wherein the communications include information requests received from an external interface and information responses transmitted on the external interface; wherein the information requests relate to data associated with the controller; and
a translator configured to perform a translation of each of the information requests to a set of process variables of the legacy domain semantic model, and to send a request to the controller for obtaining information of the information request, wherein the translation is based on the binding configuration.
2. The system of claim 1 ,
wherein the semantic binding engine and the adapter modules are deployed as a cloud based system accessing a plurality of binding configurations associated with a plurality of respective autonomous systems;
wherein the plurality of binding configurations are stored in the knowledge repository,
wherein the modules are further comprising:
a machine learning module for processing a series of binding configurations for refinement of the knowledge repository and to generate ranking of likelihood of binding proposals;
wherein the semantic binding engine updates the information model based on the refined knowledge repository and new ranking of binding proposals.
3. The system of claim 1 , wherein the binding engine is further configured to:
generate a binding proposal of candidate nodes for a model instance of the standardized model sorted by likelihood according to algorithms of the binding engine;
wherein the binding configuration is based on a user selection of a candidate node.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the binding engine is further configured to:
generate a plurality of binding configurations, each binding configuration for a respective model instance;
wherein the knowledge repository is further configured to store the plurality of binding configurations.
5. The system of claim 1 , wherein during initialization of the adapter for runtime operation, the server reads a plurality of standardized model instances of respective binding configurations and presents a standardized model to assist the information requests.
6. The system of claim 1 , further comprising:
an explorer component configured to extract process variable data from the controller, identify existing structure for the process variable, and convert the legacy domain information model into the legacy domain semantic model.
7. The system of claim 1 , wherein the adapter is embedded in the controller.
8. A method for knowledge based information modeling, comprising:
generating, by a service platform, a binding configuration based on a legacy domain semantic model extracted from a controller of an autonomous system and a knowledge graph extracted from a knowledge repository of domain knowledge related to the autonomous system, wherein the binding configuration represents a mapping of standardized model instance components to a component of the legacy domain semantic model;
processing, by the service platform, communications related to a standardized information model, wherein the communications include information requests received from an external interface and information responses transmitted on the external interface; wherein the information requests relate to data associated with the controller; and
translating, by the service platform, each of the information requests to a set of process variables of the legacy domain semantic model, and sending a request to the controller for obtaining information of the information request, wherein the translating is based on the binding configuration.
9. The method of claim 8,
wherein the semantic binding engine and the adapter modules are deployed as a cloud based system accessing a plurality of binding configurations associated with a plurality of respective autonomous systems;
wherein the plurality of binding configurations are stored in the knowledge repository,
wherein the modules are further comprising:
a machine learning module for processing a series of binding configurations for refinement of the knowledge repository and to generate ranking of likelihood of binding proposals; wherein the semantic binding engine updates the information model based on the refined knowledge repository and new ranking of binding proposals.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising:
generating a binding proposal of candidate nodes for a model instance of the standardized model sorted by likelihood according to algorithms of the binding engine;
wherein the binding configuration is based on a user selection of a candidate node.
1 1 . The method of claim 10, further comprising:
generating a plurality of binding configurations, each binding configuration for a respective model instance;
wherein the knowledge repository is further configured to store the plurality of binding configurations.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising:
during an initialization of the service platform for runtime operation, reading a plurality of standardized model instances of respective binding configurations and presenting a standardized model to assist the information requests.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising: extracting process variable data from the controller, identify existing structure for the process variable, and convert the legacy domain information model into the legacy domain semantic model.
</claims>
</document>
