<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DATAVALORIS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GLAFKIDES JEAN PATRICE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69061409
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MODIFICATION OF A NEURAL NETWORK TOPOLOGY
</title>

<abstract>
A method may include obtaining data representative of an NNT of a graph-based model that includes multiple components. The multiple components may include multiple neural nodes and at least one connection. The at least one connection may associate two or more of the neural nodes. The method may include displaying the NNT including the multiple components in a GUI via a display screen. The method may include receiving user input effective to indicate that at least one of the components of the NNT is to be modified. The user input may be received via the GUI. The method may include modifying the at least one of the components of the NNT. The at least one of the components may be modified based on the user input. The method may include displaying the NNT that comprises the modification of the at least one of the components via the GUI.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method comprising:
obtaining data representative of a neural network topology (NNT) of a graph-based model, the NNT comprising multiple components that include multiple neural nodes and at least one connection that associates two or more of the neural nodes;
displaying, in a graphical user interface (GUI), via a display screen, the NNT including the multiple components;
receiving, via the GUI, user input effective to indicate that at least one of the components of the NNT is to be modified;
modifying the at least one of the components of the NNT based on the user input; and displaying, via the GUI, the NNT that comprises the modification of the at least one of the components.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising:
receiving, via the GUI, an additional user input effective to select the at least one of the components of the NNT; and
displaying, via the GUI, information describing one or more properties of the at least one of the components.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprising:
obtaining a validation dataset;
generating validation machine learning results based on machine learning performed using the NNT that comprises the modification of the at least one of the components and the validation dataset;
generating comparison machine learning results based on machine learning performed using a pre-selected NNT and the validation dataset; and
validating the NNT comprising the modification of the at least one of the components by comparing the validation machine learning results with the comparison machine learning results.
4. The method of claim 3 further comprising: determining an additional modification to at least one of the components based on the comparison of the validation machine learning results with the comparison machine learning results; and
providing a recommendation, via the GUI, relating to the modification of the at least one of the components.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining whether the modification of the at least one of the components is against one or more source rules of a source network, wherein responsive to the modification of the at least one of the components being against one or more of the source rules, the method further comprises providing a notice via the GUI that includes information related to the one or more source rules that the modification of the at least one of the components will be against.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining whether the modification of the at least one of the components is against one or more source rules of a source network, wherein responsive to the modification of the at least one of the components not being against one or more of the source rules, the method further comprises automatically proceeding with the modification of the at least one of the components.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising receiving, via the GUI, an initial user input effective to select an area of the NNT including a subset of the multiple components, wherein at least a portion of the subset of the multiple components is to be modified based on the user input.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising indicating, via the GUI, a functional activity of the NNT that comprises the modification of the at least one of the components, wherein the functional activity of the NNT that comprises the modification of the at least one of the components includes at least one of a recorded time interval of functional activity and a real time functional activity based on a testing dataset.
9. A system comprising:
one or more processors configured to perform or control performance of operations comprising: obtaining data representative of a neural network topology (NNT) of a graphbased model, the NNT comprising multiple components that include multiple neural nodes and at least one connection that associates two or more of the neural nodes; displaying, in a graphical user interface (GUI) via a display screen, the NNT including the multiple components;
receiving, via the GUI, user input effective to indicate that at least one of the components of the NNT is to be modified;
modifying the at least one of the components of the NNT based on the user input; and
displaying, via the GUI, the NNT that comprises the modification of the at least one of the components.
10. The system of claim 9, the operations further comprising:
receiving, via the GUI, an additional user input effective to select the at least one of the components of the NNT; and
displaying, via the GUI, information describing one or more properties of the at least one of the components.
11. The system of claim 9, the operations further comprising:
obtaining a validation dataset;
generating validation machine learning results based on machine learning performed using the NNT that comprises the modification of the at least one of the components and the validation dataset;
generating comparison machine learning results based on machine learning performed using a pre-selected NNT and the validation dataset; and
validating the NNT that comprises the modification of the at least one of the components by comparing the validation machine learning results with the comparison machine learning results.
12. The system of claim 11, the operations further comprising:
determining an additional modification to at least one of the components based on the comparison of the validation machine learning results with the comparison machine learning results; and providing a recommendation, via the GUI, relating to the modification of the at least one of the components.
13. The system of claim 9, the operations further comprising determining whether the modification of the at least one of the components is against one or more source rules of a source network, wherein responsive to the modification of the at least one of the components being against one or more of the source rules, the operations further comprise providing a notice via the GUI that includes information related to the one or more source rules that that the modification of the at least one of the components will be against.
14. The system of claim 9, the operations further comprising determining whether the modification of the at least one of the components is against one or more source rules of a source network, wherein responsive to the modification of the at least one of the components not being against one or more of the source rules, the operations further comprise automatically proceeding with the modification of the at least one of the components.
15. The system of claim 9, the operations further comprising receiving, via the GUI, an initial user input effective to select an area of the NNT including a subset of the multiple components, wherein at least a portion of the subset of the multiple components is to be modified based on the user input.
16. The system of claim 9, the operations further comprising indicating, via the GUI, a functional activity of the NNT that comprises the modification of the at least one of the components, wherein the functional activity of the NNT that comprises the modification of the at least one of the components includes at least one of a recorded time interval of functional activity and a real-time functional activity based on a testing dataset.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereon that are executable by a processor device to perform or control performance of operations comprising:
obtaining data representative of a neural network topology (NNT) of a graph-based model, the NNT comprising multiple components that include multiple neural nodes and at least one connection that associates two or more of the neural nodes; displaying, in a graphical user interface (GUI) via a display screen, the NNT including the multiple components;
receiving, via the GUI, user input effective to indicate that at least one of the components of the NNT is to be modified;
modifying the at least one of the components of the NNT based on the user input; and displaying, via the GUI, the NNT that comprises the modification of the at least one of the components.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, the operations further comprising:
obtaining a validation dataset;
generating validation machine learning results based on machine learning performed using the NNT that comprises the modification of the at least one of the components and the validation dataset;
generating comparison machine learning results based on machine learning performed using a pre-selected NNT and the validation dataset; and
validating the NNT comprising the NNT that comprises the modification of the at least one of the components by comparing the validation machine learning results with the comparison machine learning results.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, the operations further comprising:
determining an additional modification to at least one of the components based on the comparison of the validation machine learning results with the comparison machine learning results; and
providing a recommendation, via the GUI, relating to the modification of the at least one of the components.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, the operations further comprising receiving, via the GUI, an initial user input effective to select an area of the NNT including a subset of the multiple components, wherein at least a portion of the subset of the multiple components is to be modified based on the user input.
</claims>
</document>
