<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R31/28,G06F21/73,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CYBORD LTD.
</assignee>

<inventors>
EFRAT, ZEEV
WEISS, Eyal Isachar
GIVATI, Gil Shimon
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72666728
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETECTION OF COUNTERFEIT AND CYBER ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present invention may include a method and a system for detection of counterfeit and cyber electronic components by obtaining one or more features from a plurality of electronic components of a first type and from a plurality of electronic components of a second type, processing the one or more features to create a unique model related to an electronic component of the first type and to an electronic component of the second type, examining a detected electronic component by obtaining one or more features of the detected electronic component, executing the unique model with the one or more features of the detected electronic component and determining if the detected electronic component is an authentic electronic component of the first type or the second type.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detection of counterfeit and cyber electronic components, comprising:
obtaining one or more features from a plurality of electronic components of a first type and from a plurality of electronic components of a second type;
processing the one or more features to create a unique model related to an electronic component of the first type and to an electronic component of the second type;
examining a detected electronic component by obtaining one or more features of the detected electronic component;
executing the unique model with the one or more features of the detected electronic component; and
determining if the detected electronic component is an authentic electronic component of the first type or the second type.
2. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the one or more features are one or more physical features.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein obtaining one or more features comprises collecting one or more measurements by one or more measurement probes.
4. The method according to claim 1 , wherein processing the one or more features comprises
running one or more algorithms on the one or more features.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein processing the one or more physical features
comprises training the unique model by running one or more Machine Learning algorithms and Deep Learning algorithms.
6. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the one or more features are obtained while the
electronic components are automatically conveyed in a manner that allows high throughput while tracking every individual component feature by one or more measurement probes.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the one or more features are obtained by one or more systems from a group consisting of: a computer vision system, an Infra-Red (IR) Spectroscopy system, an emissivity measurement system, an electromagnetic Radio Frequency (RF) system, a X-ray measurement system.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the one or more features are obtained by capturing one or more images of electronic components.
9. The method according to claim 7, wherein one or more images comprises logistical information.
10. The method according to claim 7, further comprising automatically removing a cover tape that covers the electronic components, prior to capturing the one or more images.
11. The method according to claim 1 , wherein obtaining one or more features comprises one or more of the following measurements: infrared spectrum of absorption or emission materials, emissivity measurement, electromagnetic Radio Frequency (RF) measurement, and X-ray measurement.
12. The method according to claim 1, further comprising compiling quality related outputs to a quality index determining whether the component can be used in production, wherein the quality index compiles the algorithms output for authentic components and classifies components with different types of faults.
13. The method according to claim 7, further comprises detecting one or more faults of the
electronic component, wherein the faults are selected from the group consisting of: cracks, voids, missing legs, tampering, corrosion and solderability issues.
14. The method according to claim 1, further comprising evaluating the state of the components soldering pads, thereby enabling to detect pads reworking as an indication of counterfeiting and to evaluate the quality of the pads for solderability.
15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the one or more features are related to a process of component packaging of the plurality of electronic components of the first type and to a process of component packaging of the plurality of electronic components of the second type, to reduce a number of detected electronic components.
16. A system for detection of counterfeit and cyber electronic components, comprising:
one or more measurement probes for obtaining one or more features from a plurality of electronic components of a first type and from a plurality of electronic components of a second type; and
a data processing unit configured to:
process the one or more features to create a unique model related to an electronic component of the first type and to an electronic component of the second type;
executing the unique model with one or more features obtained from a detected electronic component; and
determine if the detected electronic component is an authentic electronic component of the first type or the second type.
17. The system according to claim 16, wherein one of the measurement probes is a probe of a
computer vision system adapted to capture images of the electronic components and to apply automated image processing tools on the captured images.
18. The system according to claim 16, wherein the data processing unit is further configured to train one or more Machine Learning algorithms and Deep Learning algorithms.
19. The system according to claim 18, wherein the data processing unit is to process and train the data online or upload the processed data to a cloud processing server.
20. The system according to claim 16, further comprising a conveying sub-system adapted to convey the electronic components in their original package for their measurements by the one or more measurement probes.
21. The system according to claim 20, wherein the conveying sub-system is configured to remove a cover tape of the electronic components package prior to obtaining the measurements.
22. A system for detection of counterfeit and cyber electronic components comprising instructions which when executed by at least one processor causes the processor to perform the method of claim 1 , thereby enabling the components to be tested separately by using images or
measurements made by different systems.
</claims>
</document>
