<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G10L15/22,G10L15/26,G10L21/10,H04N7/15
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PINCH LABS PTY LTD
</assignee>

<inventors>
DU PLESSIS, Jaco
FLETCHER, Saxon
CUPPER, Andrew
MCGOWAN, Ian
RAETHKE, Christopher
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72750776
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR DISPLAYING, COMPRESSING AND/OR INDEXING INFORMATION RELATING TO A MEETING
</title>

<abstract>
A method of visualising a meeting between one or more participants on a display includes, in an electronic processing device, the steps of: determining a plurality of signals, each of the plurality of signals being at least partially indicative of the meeting; generating a plurality of features using the plurality of signals, the features being at least partially indicative of the signals; generating at least one of: at least one phase indicator associated with the plurality of features, the at least one phase indicator being indicative of a temporal segmentation of at least part of the meeting; and at least one event indicator associated with the plurality of features, the at least one event indicator being indicative of an event during the meeting. The method also includes the step of causing a representation indicative of the at least one phase indicator and/or the at least one event indicator to be displayed on the display to thereby provide visualisation of the meeting.
</abstract>

<claims>
1 . A method of visualising a meeting between one or more participants on a display, the method including, in an electronic processing device, the steps of:
a. determining a plurality of signals, each of the plurality of signals being at least partially indicative of the meeting;
b. generating a plurality of features using the plurality of signals, the features being at least partially indicative of the signals;
c. generating at least one of:
i. at least one phase indicator associated with the plurality of features, the at least one phase indicator being indicative of a temporal segmentation of at least part of the meeting; and
ii. at least one event indicator associated with the plurality of features, the at least one event indicator being indicative of an event during the meeting; and
d. causing a representation indicative of the at least one phase indicator and/or the at least one event indicator to be displayed on the display to thereby provide visualisation of the meeting.
2. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the plurality of signals includes a plurality of multi-modal signals.
3. The method according to claim 1 , wherein determining the plurality of signals includes any one or more of the following steps:
a. causing at least one of the plurality of signals to be captured;
b. retrieving at least one of the plurality of signals from a store; and
c. receiving at least one of the plurality of signals from a remote processing device.
4. The method according to claims 1 , wherein the method includes, in the electronic
processing device, the steps of:
a. generating a plurality of feature vectors wherein each feature vector is generated using a respective one of the multi-modal signals;
b. generating a plurality of multi-modal feature vectors using the feature vectors; and c. classifying the multi-modal feature vectors.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the method includes, in the electronic
processing device, generating the at least one phase indicator using the results of the classification.
6. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the step of generating the at least one phase indicator includes making use of any one or more of:
a. at least one hidden Markov model;
b. at least one state machine; and
c. at least one temporal filter. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the at least one temporal filter includes at least one of an erosion filter and a dilation filter.
8. The method according to claim 1 , wherein generating the at least one event indicator includes the step of anomaly detection.
9. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the method includes, in an electronic processing device, determining at least one event type associated with each event and wherein the representation is indicative of the event type.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein determining the at least one event type includes any one or more of the following steps:
a. causing at least one of the at least one event type to be captured;
b. retrieving at least one of the at least one event type from a store; and, c. receiving at least one of the at least one event type from a remote processing device.
1 1 . The method according to claim 9, wherein the event type includes any one or more of: a. an action;
b. a mood;
c. a sentiment;
d. a highlight;
e. a question;
f. recapitulation;
g. a milestone; and,
h. an event type determined in accordance with user input.
12. The method according to claim 4, wherein generating at least one event indicator includes detecting outliers among the plurality of multi-modal feature vectors using the results of the classification.
13. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the method includes, in the electronic
processing device, determining at least one of:
a. at least one phase parameter; and
b. at least one event parameter.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the plurality of features is generated in
accordance with at least one of the phase parameters and the event parameters.
15. The method according to claim 4, wherein classifying the multi-modal feature vectors includes making use of any one or more of:
a. a supervised classification;
b. an unsupervised classification; and
c. an expert rule-based classification.
16. The method according to claim 15, wherein classifying the multi-modal feature vectors includes making use of any one or more of:
a. at least one rule-based classification;
b. at least one neural network; c. at least one Gaussian mixture model;
d. at least one hidden Markov model;
e. at least one support vector machine;
f. unsupervised k-means clustering; and
g. spectral clustering.
17. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the plurality of signals includes any one or more of:
a. at least one audio signal;
b. calendar data;
c. user input;
d. at least one document;
e. at least one image signal; and
f. at least one video signal.
18. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the at least one feature is generated from the plurality of signals using any one or more of:
a. at least one neural network;
b. at least one clustering algorithm;
c. at least one hidden Markov model;
d. a filter;
e. at least one transcription algorithm;
f. at least one natural language processing algorithm; and
g. at least one image recognition algorithm.
19. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the method includes, in the electronic
processing device, the steps of:
a. determining at least one meeting parameter; and
b. generating at least one of the at least one phase indicator and the at least one event indicator in accordance with the meeting parameter.
20. The method according to claim 19, wherein the at least one meeting parameter is
indicative of any one or more of:
a. an industry;
b. a company and/or organisation;
c. at least one identity of the one or more participants;
d. one or more preferences; and
e. a location.
21 . The method according to claim 1 , wherein the representation includes at least one
temporal indicator indicative of a time range of the meeting.
22. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the representation includes at least one
graphical indication of at least one of the phase indicator and the event indicator.
23. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the representation includes at least one textual indication of at least one of the phase indicator and the event indicator. 24. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the representation includes at least one transition indicator indicative of a temporal sequence of at least one of the at least one phase indicator and the at least one event indicator.
25. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the representation includes at least one textual and/or graphical indication of a respective one of the features associated with at least one of the phase indicator and the event indicator.
26. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the method includes, in the electronic
processing device, the steps of:
a. receiving an input selection associated with at least one of the phase indicator and the event indicator;
b. selectively updating the representation to include an indication of a respective one of the features associated with the selected one of the phase indicator and/or the event indicator; and
c. causing the updated representation to be displayed.
27. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the method includes, in the electronic
processing device, the steps of:
a. receiving an input selection associated with at least one of the phase indicator and the event indicator;
b. selectively updating the representation to include an indication of a respective one or more of the plurality of signals associated with the selected one of the phase indicator and/or the event indicator; and
c. causing the updated representation to be displayed.
28. The method according to claim 27, wherein the respective one or more of the plurality of signals includes at least one of one or more audio signals, one or more video signals, and at least a portion of a transcript.
29. A method of compressing a plurality of signals indicative of a meeting between one or more participants, the method including, in an electronic processing device, the steps of: a. generating a plurality of features using the plurality of signals, the features being indicative of the signals;
b. generating at least one of:
i. at least one phase indicator associated with the plurality of features, the at least one phase indicator being indicative of a temporal segmentation of at least part of the meeting; and
ii. at least one event indicator associated with the plurality of features, the at least one event indicator being indicative of an event during the meeting; and
c. causing the plurality of signals to be compressed in accordance with the at least one phase indicator and/or the at least one event indicator.
30. The method according to claim 29, wherein the method includes, in the electronic
processing device, the steps of: a. receiving an input selection associated with at least one of the phase indicator and the event indicator; and
b. selectively providing an indication of a respective one of the features associated with the selected one of the phase indicator and/or the event indicator, to thereby compress the plurality of signals.
31 . The method according to claim 29, wherein the method includes, in the electronic
processing device, the steps of:
a. receiving an input selection associated with at least one of the phase indicator and the event indicator; and
b. selectively providing an indication of a respective one or more of the plurality of signals associated with the selected one of the phase indicator and/or the event indicator, to thereby compress the plurality of signals.
32. The method according to claim 31 , wherein the respective one or more of the plurality of signals includes at least one of one or more audio signals, one or more video signals, and at least a portion of a transcript.
33. The method according to claim 29, wherein the method further includes any one or more of the features of claims 1 to 28.
34. A method of indexing a plurality of signals indicative of a meeting between one or more participants, the method including, in an electronic processing device, the steps of:
a. generating a plurality of features using the plurality of signals, the features being indicative of the signals;
b. generating at least one of:
i. at least one phase indicator associated with the plurality of features, the at least one phase indicator being indicative of a temporal segmentation of at least part of the meeting; and
ii. at least one event indicator associated with the plurality of features, the at least one event indicator being indicative of an event during the meeting; and
c. causing the signals to be indexed in accordance with the at least one phase
indicator and/or the at least one event indicator.
35. The method according to claim 34, wherein the method includes, in the electronic
processing device, the following steps:
a. receiving an input selection associated with at least one of the phase indicator and the event indicator; and
b. selectively indexing a respective one of the features associated with the selected one of the phase indicator and/or the event indicator.
36. The method according to claim 34, wherein the method includes, in the electronic
processing device, the steps of:
a. receiving an input selection associated with at least one of the phase indicator and the event indicator; and b. selectively indexing a respective one or more of the plurality of signals associaled with the selected one of the phase indicator and/or the event indicator.
37. The method according to claim 35, wherein the respective one or more of the plurality of signals includes at least one of one or more audio signals, one or more video signals, and at least a portion of a transcript.
38. The method according to claim 34, wherein the method further includes any one or more of the features of claims 1 to 28.
39. A method of displaying information on a display, the information relating to a meeting between one or more participants, the method including, in an electronic processing device, the steps of:
a. determining a plurality of signals, each of the plurality of signals being at least partially indicative of the meeting;
b. generating a plurality of features using the plurality of signals, the features being indicative of the signals;
c. generating at least one of:
i. at least one phase indicator associated with the plurality of features, the at least one phase indicator being indicative of a temporal segmentation of at least part of the meeting; and,
ii. at least one event indicator associated with the plurality of features, the at least one event indicator being indicative of an event during the meeting; and
d. causing a representation indicative of the at least one phase indicator and/or the at least one event indicator to be displayed on the display to thereby provide the information indicative of the meeting.
40. The method according to claim 39, wherein the method further includes any one or more of the features of claims 1 to 28.
41 . An apparatus for visualising a meeting between one or more participants on a display, the apparatus including an electronic processing device that is configured for carrying out the steps of:
a. determine a plurality of signals, each of the plurality of signals being at least partially indicative of the meeting;
b. generate a plurality of features using the plurality of signals, the features being at least partially indicative of the signals;
c. generate at least one of:
i. at least one phase indicator associated with the plurality of features, the at least one phase indicator being indicative of a temporal segmentation of at least part of the meeting;
ii. at least one event indicator associated with the plurality of features, the at least one event indicator being indicative of an event during the meeting; and d. cause a representation indicative of the at least one phase indicator and/or the at least one event indicator to be displayed on the display to thereby provide visualisation of the meeting.
</claims>
</document>
