<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06T15/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SECRETARY OF STATE FOR DEFENCE IN HER BRITANNIC MAJESTY'S GOV. OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND
</assignee>

<inventors>
JOHNSON, Geraint
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67385286
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OBTAINING PATTERNS FOR SURFACES OF OBJECTS
</title>

<abstract>
A method, computer system and computer-readable medium for determining a surface pattern for a target object using an evolutionary algorithm such as a genetic algorithm, a parameterized texture-generating function, a 3D renderer for rendering images of a 3D model of the target object with a texture obtained from the parameterized texture generating function, and an object recognition model to process the images and predict whether or not the image contains an object of the target object's type or category. Sets of parameters are generated using the evolutionary algorithm and the accuracy of the object recognition model's prediction of the images with the 3D model textured according to each set of parameters is used to determine a fitness score, by which sets of parameters are scored for the purpose of obtaining future further generations of sets of parameters, such as by genetic algorithm operations such as mutation and crossover operations. The surface pattern is obtained based on the images of the 3D model rendered with a surface texture generated according to a high-scoring set of parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining a surface pattern for a target object, the method comprising: providing a digital 3D model of a target object; providing a parameterized texture model that outputs a texture based on a set of parameters; providing at least one object recognition model configured to process one or more images and determine an output indicative of the object recognition model's confidence that the image contains an object matching a classification; for an initial generation of a genetic algorithm, providing a plurality of sets of parameters and determining a composite fitness score for each set of parameters of the plurality of sets of parameters; for one or more further generations of the genetic algorithm, generating a new plurality of sets of parameters based on the sets of parameters and fitness scores of a preceding generation and determining composite fitness scores for each set of parameters of the new plurality of sets of parameters, wherein determining a composite fitness score for a particular set of parameters comprises: generating a plurality of images by rendering the digital 3D model from a plurality of viewpoints around the digital 3D model with the digital 3D model textured based on the parameterized texture model and the particular set of parameters; determining at least one fitness score for each image of the generated plurality of images by processing the image using the at least one object recognition model, the at least one fitness score being based on the degree to which the at least one object recognition model failed to correctly classify the image as containing the target object; and determining a composite fitness score for the particular set of parameters based on the at least one fitness score generated for each of the images of the generated plurality of images.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein new pluralities of sets of parameters are generated and corresponding new composite fitness scores are determined until termination criteria are reached, such that an optimized set of parameters is obtained.
3. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein generating a new plurality of sets of parameters based on the sets of parameters and fitness scores of a preceding generation comprises selecting one or more of the sets of parameters of the preceding generation based on the fitness scores determined for the sets of parameters and modifying the selected one or more sets of parameters.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein modifying the selected one or more sets of parameters comprises performing a mutation operation on one or more of the selected one or more sets of parameters.
5. The method of claim 3 or claim 4, wherein a plurality of sets of parameters of the preceding generation are selected, and wherein modifying the selected plurality of sets of parameters comprises performing a crossover operation using two or more of the selected plurality of sets of parameters.
6. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the views used to determine a composite fitness score for a particular set of parameters are varied between one or more of: each set of parameters, and each generation of the algorithm.
7. The method of any preceding claim, wherein at least one of the views used to determine a composite fitness score for a particular set of parameters is determined randomly.
8. The method of any preceding claim, wherein generating a plurality of images by rendering the digital 3D model comprises varying one or more of the following between at least some of the plurality of images: lighting condition, environmental condition, projection, model reflectivity, and background scenery.
9. The method of any preceding claim, wherein determining at least one fitness score for each image of the generated plurality of images by processing the image using the at least one object recognition model comprises processing the image using a plurality of object recognition models to obtain a plurality of fitness scores for the image.
10. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the parameterized texture model outputs a planar texture and rendering the digital 3D model comprises mapping the planar texture to the surface of the digital 3D model.
11. The method of any of claims 1 to 9, wherein the parameterized texture model outputs a solid texture and rendering the digital 3D model comprises determining colour values at positions within the solid texture that correspond to positions on the digital 3D model.
12. The method of any preceding claim, wherein determining a fitness score for an image comprises processing the image using the at least one object recognition model to obtain, for each of one or more categories, an indication of the object recognition model's confidence that the image contains an object of the category.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the determined fitness score for an image varies inversely with the object recognition model's confidence that the image contains an object of the same category as the target object.
14. The method of claim 12 or claim 13, wherein the determined fitness score for an image varies directly with the object recognition model's confidence that the image contains an object of a predefined category that is different from the category of the target object.
15. The method of any preceding claim, wherein determining a composite fitness score for the particular set of parameters based on the fitness scores generated for each of the images of the generated plurality of images comprises obtaining an average of the fitness scores.
16. A computer system for determining a surface pattern for a target object, the computer system comprising a memory store and one or more processors, the one or more processors configured to: provide a digital 3D model of a target object; provide a parameterized texture model that outputs a texture based on a set of parameters; provide at least one object recognition model configured to process one or more images and determine an output indicative of the object recognition model's confidence that the image contains an object matching a classification; for an initial generation of a genetic algorithm, provide a plurality of sets of parameters and determine a composite fitness score for each set of parameters of the plurality of sets of parameters; for one or more further generations of the genetic algorithm, generate a new plurality of sets of parameters based on the sets of parameters and fitness scores of a preceding generation and determine composite fitness scores for each set of parameters of the new plurality of sets of parameters, wherein determining a composite fitness score for a particular set of parameters comprises: generating a plurality of images by rendering the digital 3D model from a plurality of viewpoints around the digital 3D model with the digital 3D model textured based on the parameterized texture model and the particular set of parameters; determining at least one fitness score for each image of the generated plurality of images by processing the image using the at least one object recognition model, the at least one fitness score being based on the degree to which the at least one object recognition model failed to correctly classify the image as containing the target object; and determining a composite fitness score for the particular set of parameters based on the at least one fitness score generated for each of the images of the generated plurality of images.
17. The computer system of claim 16, further configured to perform a method according to any of claims 2 to 15.
18. A computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: provide a digital 3D model of a target object; provide a parameterized texture model that outputs a texture based on a set of parameters; provide at least one object recognition model configured to process one or more images and determine an output indicative of the object recognition model's confidence that the image contains an object matching a classification; for an initial generation of a genetic algorithm, provide a plurality of sets of parameters and determine a composite fitness score for each set of parameters of the plurality of sets of parameters; for one or more further generations of the genetic algorithm, generate a new plurality of sets of parameters based on the sets of parameters and fitness scores of a preceding generation and determine composite fitness scores for each set of parameters of the new plurality of sets of parameters, wherein determining a composite fitness score for a particular set of parameters comprises: generating a plurality of images by rendering the digital 3D model from a plurality of viewpoints around the digital 3D model with the digital 3D model textured based on the parameterized texture model and the particular set of parameters; determining at least one fitness score for each image of the generated plurality of images by processing the image using the at least one object recognition model, the at least one fitness score being based on the degree to which the at least one object recognition model failed to correctly classify the image as containing the target object; and determining a composite fitness score for the particular set of parameters based on the at least one fitness score generated for each of the images of the generated plurality of images.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 18 having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform a method according to any of claims 2 to 15.
</claims>
</document>
