<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N10/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
IBM UNITED KINGDOM
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDO, BALEEGH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69954052
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEASUREMENT SCHEME FOR SUPERCONDUCTING QUBITS USING LOW-FREQUENCY MICROWAVE SIGNALS WITHIN A DILUTION REFRIGERATOR
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques that facilitate a measurement scheme for superconducting qubits using low-frequency microwave signals within a dilution refrigerator are provided. In one example, a cryogenic microwave system for measuring superconducting qubits using microwave signals includes a dilution refrigerator system for a quantum processor. The dilution refrigerator system converts a microwave signal associated with qubit information into a reduced-frequency microwave signal based on a Josephson-mixer circuit located within the dilution refrigerator system. The reduced-frequency microwave signal includes a frequency below a qubit frequency and a readout resonator frequency associated with the quantum processor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A cryogenic microwave system for measuring superconducting qubits using microwave signals, comprising: a dilution refrigerator system for a quantum processor that converts a microwave signal associated with qubit information into a reduced-frequency microwave signal based on a Josephson-mixer circuit located within the dilution refrigerator system, wherein the reduced-frequency microwave signal comprises a frequency below a qubit frequency and a readout resonator frequency associated with the quantum processor.
2. The cryogenic microwave system of claim 1 , wherein an input transmission line for the dilution refrigerator system comprises an attenuator and a lowpass filter to attenuate and filter the microwave signal.
3. The cryogenic microwave system of claim 1 , wherein an output transmission line for the dilution refrigerator system comprises lowpass filter to reject particular frequency signals and noise, and wherein the output transmission line comprises an analog-to-digital converter and a lowpass filter to digitize and filter the reduced-frequency microwave signal.
4. The cryogenic microwave system of claim 1 , wherein the dilution refrigerator system comprises an analog-todigital converter that digitizes the reduced-frequency microwave signal based on a superconducting device to generate a digital signal for a classical computing system.
5. The cryogenic microwave system of claim 1, wherein employing the reduced-frequency microwave signal improves performance of the quantum processor.
6. A system, comprising:
a dilution refrigerator system for a quantum processor that decreases and increases a frequency of a microwave signal associated with a qubit readout to provide a qubit measurement associated with the quantum processor.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the microwave signal is a first microwave signal, and wherein the dilution refrigerator system comprises a Josephson mixer circuit that converts the first microwave signal into a second microwave signal, and wherein a first frequency associated with the first microwave signal is greater than a second frequency associated with the second microwave signal.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the dilution refrigerator system comprises a rapid single flux quantum (RSFQ) analog-to-digital converter (ADC) that digitizes the second microwave signal based on a superconducting device to generate a digital signal for a classical computing system.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the dilution refrigerator system comprises a near quantum-limited amplifier that amplifies the second microwave signal to generate an amplified version of the second microwave signal for processing by the RSFQ ADC.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the dilution refrigerator system comprises a quantum-limited amplifier that amplifies the first microwave signal to generate an amplified version of the first microwave signal for processing by the Josephson mixer circuit.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the dilution refrigerator system comprises a Josephson-based isolator that comprises a set of Josephson mixers to limit noise provided to the quantum processor by an output chain within the dilution refrigerator system.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein the dilution refrigerator system comprises a bandpass filter that filters the first microwave signal based on a band of frequencies to generate a filtered version of the first microwave signal for processing by the Josephson mixer circuit.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the dilution refrigerator system comprises a lowpass filter that transmits the second microwave signal with minimal loss for processing by the RSFQ ADC.
14. The system of claim 6, wherein the system further comprises:
a classical computing system that comprises an electronic device that generates the microwave signal.
15. The system of claim 6, wherein the dilution refrigerator system decreases and increases the frequency of the microwave signal inside the dilution refrigerator system to improve coherence of the quantum processor.
16. A method, comprising:
converting, by a dilution refrigerator system associated with a quantum processor, a microwave signal into a reduced-frequency microwave signal based on a Josephson-mixer circuit located within the dilution refrigerator system; digitizing, by the dilution refrigerator system, the reduced-frequency microwave signal into a digital signal that comprises qubit information associated with the quantum processor; and
transmitting, by the dilution refrigerator system, the digital signal to a classical computing system.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
receiving, by the dilution refrigerator system, the microwave signal from the classical computing system.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising: amplifying, by the dilution refrigerator system, the microwave signal via a Josephson directional amplifier located within the dilution refrigerator system.
19. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
protecting, by the dilution refrigerator system, the quantum processor from noise associated with an output chain of the dilution refrigerator system using a Josephson-based isolator located within the dilution refrigerator system.
20. A system, comprising:
a Josephson mixer circuit that converts a first microwave signal associated with quantum information generated by a quantum processor into a second microwave signal, wherein a first frequency associated with the first microwave signal is greater than a second frequency associated with the second microwave signal; and
a rapid single flux quantum (RSFQ) analog-to-digital converter (ADC) that digitizes the second microwave signal based on a superconducting device to generate a digital signal for a classical computing system.
21. The system of claim 20, further comprising:
a quantum-limited amplifier that amplifies the second microwave signal to generate an amplified version of the second microwave signal for processing by the RSFQ ADC.
22. The system of claim 20, further comprising:
a quantum-limited amplifier that amplifies the first microwave signal to generate an amplified version of the first microwave signal for processing by the Josephson mixer circuit.
23. A system, comprising:
a quantum processor; and
a dilution refrigerator system that decreases a frequency of a first microwave signal associated with a qubit readout via a Josephson mixer circuit to generate a second microwave signal, and digitizes the second microwave signal via a rapid single flux quantum (RSFQ) analog-to-digital converter (ADC) to generate a digital signal for a classical computing system.
24. The system of claim 23, further comprising:
a near quantum-limited amplifier that amplifies the second microwave signal to generate an amplified version of the second microwave signal for processing by the RSFQ ADC.
25. The system of claim 23, further comprising:
a quantum-limited amplifier that amplifies the first microwave signal to generate an amplified version of the first microwave signal for processing by the Josephson mixer circuit.
</claims>
</document>
