<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N1/18,G01N15/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BECTON, DICKINSON & COMPANY
LIN, JONATHAN
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROBERTS, DAVID
LIN, JONATHAN
OWSLEY, KEEGAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72832216
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SUBSAMPLING FLOW CYTOMETRIC EVENT DATA
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein include systems, devices, computer readable media, and methods for subsampling flow cytometric event data. First and second flow cytometric event data can be transformed into a lower-dimensional space, associated with a plurality of bins, and assigned to a first bin and a second bin. Subsampled flow cytometric event data comprising the first flow cytometric event data can be generated. The subsampled flow cytometric event data can comprise the second flow cytometric event data if the first bin and the second bin are different. The sub sampled flow cytometric event data may not comprise the second flow cytometric event data if the first bin and the second bin are identical.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for subsampling flow cytometric event data comprising:
under control of a processor:
transforming first flow cytometric event data, associated with a first event of a first plurality of events, of a flow cytometric event dataset in a higher-dimensional space to a first transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the first event, in a first lowerdimensional space, wherein the first event is associated with a positive subsampling requirement, wherein the first lower-dimensional space is associated with a first plurality of bins, and wherein the first transformed flow cytometric event data is associated with a first bin of the first plurality of bins;
transforming second flow cytometric event data, associated with a second event of the first plurality of events, of the flow cytometric event dataset in the higher-dimensional space to a second transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the second event, in the first lower-dimensional space, wherein the second event is associated with the positive sub sampling requirement, and wherein the second transformed flow cytometric event data is associated with a second bin of the first plurality of bins;
determining the first bin associated with the first transformed flow cytometric event data and the second bin associated with the second transformed flow cytometric event data are different; and
generating the subsampled flow cytometric event dataset, of the flow cytometric event data, comprising the first flow cytometric event data associated with the first event and the second flow cytometric event data associated with the second event.
2. The method of claim 1, comprising: receiving flow cytometric event data comprising the first flow cytometric event data and the second flow cytometric event data.
3. The method of any one of claims 1-2, comprising:
determining the first flow cytometric event data of the first event of the first plurality of events is associated with the positive sub sampling requirement; and
determining the second flow cytometric event data of the second event of the first plurality of events is associated with the positive sub sampling requirement.
4. The method of any one of claims 1-3, comprising: determining the first transformed flow cytometric event data is associated with the first bin of the first plurality of bins; and
determining the second transformed flow cytometric event data is associated with the second bin of the first plurality of bins.
5. The method of any one of claims 1-4, comprising:
determining a first descriptor of the first transformed flow cytometric event data based on the first bin of the first plurality of bins; and
determining a second descriptor of the second transformed flow cytometric event data based on the second bin of the first plurality of bins.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the first descriptor of the first transformed flow cytometric event data associated with the first bin is a first bin number of the first bin of the first plurality of bins, and wherein the second descriptor of the second transformed flow cytometric event data associated with the second bin is a second bin number of the first bin of the first plurality of bins.
7. The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the first flow cytometric event data is associated with a first rare cell and/or the second flow cytometric event data is associated with a second rare cell, optionally wherein the first rare cell and the second rare cells are cells of different cell types.
8. The method of any one of claims 1-7, comprising:
adding the first bin, the first descriptor, and/or the first bin number to a memory data structure; and
adding the second bin, the second descriptor, and/or the second bin number to the memory data structure.
9. The method of any one of claims 1-8, comprising:
transforming third flow cytometric event data, associated with a third event of the first plurality of events, of the flow cytometric event dataset in the higher-dimensional space to a third transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the third event, in the first lower-dimensional space, wherein the third event is associated with the positive sub sampling requirement, and wherein the third transformed flow cytometric event data is associated with a third bin of the first plurality of bins; and determining the third bin associated with the third transformed flow cytometric event data is the first bin associated with the first transformed flow cytometric event data or the second bin associated with the second transformed flow cytometric event data, wherein the third flow cytometric event data is not in the subsampled flow cytometric event data of the flow cytometric event data.
10. The method of claim 9, comprising: determining a third descriptor of the third transformed flow cytometric event data based on the third bin of the first plurality of bins, wherein the third descriptor of the third transformed flow cytometric event data associated with the third bin is a third bin number of the third bin of the first plurality of bins.
11. The method of any one of claims 9-10, comprising: determining the third bin, the third descriptor, and/or the third bin number is not in the memory data structure.
12. The method of any one of claims 1-11, comprising:
determining fourth flow cytometric event data, associated with a fourth event of the first plurality of events, is associated with a negative subsampling requirement; and
wherein said generating comprises generating the subsampled flow cytometric event dataset, of the flow cytometric event data, comprising the fourth flow cyometric event data associated with the fourth event.
13. The method of any one of claims 1-12, comprising:
receiving a plurality of gates defining a plurality of cells of interest, wherein the fourth flow cytometric event data is associated with a cell of interest of the plurality of cells of interest.
14. The method of any one of claims 1-13, wherein the fourth flow cytometric event data is associated with a sorted cell.
15. The method of any one of claims 1-14, comprising:
transforming second flow cytometric event data, associated with a second event of a second plurality of events, of the flow cytometric event dataset in the higherdimensional space to a second transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the second event of the second plurality of events, in the first lower-dimensional space, wherein the second event of the second plurality of events is associated with the positive sub sampling requirement, wherein the second transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the second event of the second plurality of events, is associated with a second bin of the first plurality of bins, wherein the second bin associated with the second transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the second event of the second plurality of events and the first bin associated with the first transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the first event of the first plurality of events are identical, wherein said generating comprises generating the subsampled flow cytometric event dataset, of the flow cytometric event data, comprising the second flow cytometric event data associated with the second event of the second plurality of events.
16. The method of claim 15, comprising:
determining a last event of the first plurality of events is associated with a time parameter or an event number greater than a predetermined threshold;
resetting the memory data structure; and
adding the second bin associated with the second transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the second event of the second plurality of events, to the memory data structure.
17. The method of claim 16, comprising:
receiving a degree of subsampling parameter; and
determining the predetermined threshold based on the degree of subsampling parameter.
18. The method of any one of claims 1-17, wherein transforming the first flow cytometric event data comprises transforming the first flow cytometric event data using a first dimensionality reduction function, and/or wherein transforming the second flow cytometric event data comprises transforming the second flow cytometric event data using the first dimensionality reduction function .
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the first dimensionality reduction function and/or the second dimensionality reduction function is a linear dimensionality reduction function.
20. The method of any one of claims 18-19, wherein the first dimensionality reduction function and/or the second dimensionality reduction function is a non-linear dimensionality reduction function.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the non-linear dimensionality reduction function is t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (t-SNE).
22. The method of any one of claims 18-21, comprising: receiving first the dimensionality reduction function, or an identification thereof.
23. The method of any one of claims 18-22,
wherein transforming the first flow cytometric event data comprises transforming the first flow cytometric event data to a first transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the first event, in a second lower-dimensional space, using a second dimensionality reduction function, wherein the second lower-dimensional space is associated with a second plurality of bins, and wherein the first transformed flow cytometric event data in the second lower-dimensional space is associated with a first bin of the second plurality of bins, and/or
wherein transforming the second flow cytometric event data comprises transforming the second flow cytometric event data to a second transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the second event, in the second lower-dimensional space, using the second dimensionality reduction function, wherein the second transformed flow cytometric event data in the second lower-dimensional space is associated with a second bin of the second plurality of bins.
24. The method of claim 23,
wherein the first bin of the first plurality of bins is associated with a first type of cells of interest,
wherein the second bin of the second plurality of bins is associated with a second type of cells of interest,
wherein the second bin of the first plurality of bins is not associated with the first type of cells of interest, wherein the second bin of the first plurality of bins is not associated with the second type of cells of interest,
wherein the first bin of the second plurality of bins is not associated with the second type of cells of interest, and/or wherein the first bin of the second plurality of bins is not associated with the first type of cells of interest.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein a combination of the first bin of the first plurality of bins and the first bin of the second plurality of bins is associated with a first type of cells of interest, and/or wherein a combination of the second bin of the first plurality of bins and the second bin of the second plurality of bins is associated with a second type of cells of interest.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein a combination of the first bin of the first plurality of bins and the second bin of the second plurality of bins is not associated with the first type of cells of interest and the second type of cells of interest, and/or wherein a combination of the second bin of the first plurality of bins and the first bin of the second plurality of bins is not associated with the first type of cells of interest and the second type of cells of interest.
27. The method of any one of claims 1-26, wherein two bins of the first plurality of bins have an identical size.
28. The method of any one of claims 1-27, wherein each bin of the first plurality of bins has an identical size.
29. The method of any one of claims 1-27, wherein two bins of the first plurality of bins have different sizes.
30. The method of any one of claims 1-29, wherein two bins of the first plurality of bins comprise approximately an identical number of transformed flow cytometric event data.
31. The method of any one of claims 1-30, wherein each of the first plurality of bins comprises approximately an identical number of transformed flow cytometric event data.
32. The method of any one of claims 1-31, comprising determining a size of each of the first plurality of bins.
33. The method of claim 32, comprising determining the size of each of the first plurality of bins based on a plurality of gates.
34. The method of any one of claims 32-33, comprising determining the size of each of the first plurality of bins based on the transformed flow cytometric event data associated with a plurality of cells of interest.
35. A computing system for sub sampling flow cytometric event data comprising: non-transitory memory configured to store executable instructions; and
a processor in communication with the non-transitory memory, the processor programmed by the executable instructions to:
transform first flow cytometric event data, associated with a first event of a first plurality of events, of a flow cytometric event dataset in a hi gher-dimensional space to a first transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the first event, in a first lowerdimensional space, wherein the first event is associated with a positive sub sampling requirement, wherein the first lower-dimensional space is associated with a first plurality of bins, and wherein the first transformed flow cytometric event data is associated with a first bin of the first plurality of bins;
transform second flow cytometric event data, associated with a second event of the first plurality of events, in the higher-dimensional space to a second transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the second event, of the flow cytometric event dataset in the first lower-dimensional space, wherein the second event is associated with the positive subsampling requirement, and wherein the second transformed flow cytometric event data is associated with a second bin of the first plurality of bins;
determine the first bin associated with the first transformed flow cytometric event data and the second bin associated with the second transformed flow cytometric event data are different; and
generate the sub sampled flow cytometric event dataset, of the flow cytometric event data, comprising the first flow cytometric event data associated with the first event and the second flow cytometric event data associated with the second event.
36. The system of claim 35, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to: receive flow cytometric event data comprising the first flow cytometric event data and the second flow cytometric event data.
37. The system of any one of claims 35-36, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to:
determine the first flow cytometric event data of the first event of the first plurality of events is associated with the positive sub sampling requirement; and
determine the second flow cytometric event data of the second event of the first plurality of events is associated with the positive subsampling requirement.
38. The system of any one of claims 35-37, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to:
determine the first transformed flow cytometric event data is associated with the first bin of the first plurality of bins; and
determine the second transformed flow cytometric event data is associated with the second bin of the first plurality of bins.
39. The system of any one of claims 35-38, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to: determine a first descriptor of the first transformed flow cytometric event data based on the first bin of the first plurality of bins; and
determine a second descriptor of the second transformed flow cytometric event data based on the second bin of the first plurality of bins.
40. The system of claim 39, wherein the first descriptor of the first transformed flow cytometric event data associated with the first bin is a first bin number of the first bin of the first plurality of bins, and wherein the second descriptor of the second transformed flow cytometric event data associated with the second bin is a second bin number of the first bin of the first plurality of bins.
41. The system of any one of claims 35-40, wherein the first flow cytometric event data is associated with a first rare cell and/or the second flow cytometric event data is associated with a second rare cell, optionally wherein the first rare cell and the second rare cells are cells of different cell types.
42. The system of any one of claims 35-41, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to:
add the first bin, the first descriptor, and/or the first bin number to a memory data structure; and
add the second bin, the second descriptor, and/or the second bin number to the memory data structure.
43. The system of any one of claims 35-42, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to:
transform third flow cytometric event data, associated with a third event of the first plurality of events, of the flow cytometric event dataset in the higher-dimensional space to a third transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the third event, in the first lower-dimensional space, wherein the third event is associated with the positive subsampling requirement, and wherein the third transformed flow cytometric event data is associated with a third bin of the first plurality of bins; and
determine the third bin associated with the third transformed flow cytometric event data is the first bin associated with the first transformed flow cytometric event data or the second bin associated with the second transformed flow cytometric event data, wherein the third flow cytometric event data is not in the subsampled flow cytometric event data of the flow cytometric event data.
44. The system of claim 43, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to: determine a third descriptor of the third transformed flow cytometric event data based on the third bin of the first plurality of bins, wherein the third descriptor of the third transformed flow cytometric event data associated with the third bin is a third bin number of the third bin of the first plurality of bins.
45. The system of any one of claims 43-44, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to: determine the third bin, the third descriptor, and/or the third bin number is not in the memory data structure.
46. The system of any one of claims 35-45, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to:
determine fourth flow cytometric event data, associated with a fourth event of the first plurality of events, is associated with a negative subsampling requirement,
wherein to generate the subsampled flow cytometric event dataset, the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to: generate the sub sampled flow cytometric event dataset, of the flow cytometric event data, comprising the fourth flow cyometric event data associated with the fourth event.
47. The system of any one of claims 35-46, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to:
receive a plurality of gates defining a plurality of cells of interest, wherein the fourth flow cytometric event data is associated with a cell of interest of the plurality of cells of interest.
48. The system of any one of claims 35-47, wherein the fourth flow cytometric event data is associated with a sorted cell.
49. The system of any one of claims 35-48, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to:
transform second flow cytometric event data, associated with a second event of a second plurality of events, of the flow cytometric event dataset in the higher-dimensional space to a second transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the second event of the second plurality of events, in the first lower-dimensional space, wherein the second event of the second plurality of events is associated with the positive subsampling requirement, wherein the second transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the second event of the second plurality of events, is associated with a second bin of the first plurality of bins, wherein the second bin associated with the second transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the second event of the second plurality of events and the first bin associated with the first transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the first event of the first plurality of events are identical,
wherein to generate the subsampled flow cytometric event dataset, the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to: generate the sub sampled flow cytometric event dataset, of the flow cytometric event data, comprising the second flow cytometric event data associated with the second event of the second plurality of events.
50. The system of claim 49, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to:
determine a last event of the first plurality of events is associated with a time parameter or an event number greater than a predetermined threshold;
reset the memory data structure; and
add the second bin associated with the second transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the second event of the second plurality of events, to the memory data structure.
51. The system of claim 50, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to:
receive a degree of subsampling parameter; and
determine the predetermined threshold based on the degree of subsampling parameter.
52. The system of any one of claims 35-51,
wherein to transform the first flow cytometric event data, the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to: transform the first flow cytometric event data using a first dimensionality reduction function, and/or
wherein to transform the second flow cytometric event data, the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to: transform the second flow cytometric event data using the first dimensionality reduction function.
53. The system of claim 52, wherein the first dimensionality reduction function and/or the second dimensionality reduction function is a linear dimensionality reduction function.
54. The system of any one of claims 52-53, wherein the first dimensionality reduction function and/or the second dimensionality reduction function is a non-linear dimensionality reduction function.
55. The system of claim 54, wherein the non-linear dimensionality reduction function is t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (t-SNE).
56. The system of any one of claims 52-55, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to: receive first the dimensionality reduction function, or an identification thereof.
57. The system of any one of claims 52-56,
wherein to transform the first flow cytometric event data, the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to: transform the first flow cytometric event data to a first transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the first event, in a second lower-dimensional space, using a second dimensionality reduction function, wherein the second lower-dimensional space is associated with a second plurality of bins, and wherein the first transformed flow cytometric event data in the second lowerdimensional space is associated with a first bin of the second plurality of bins, and/or wherein to transform the second flow cytometric event data, the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to: transform the second flow cytometric event data to a second transformed flow cytometric event data, associated with the second event, in the second lower-dimensional space, using the second dimensionality reduction function, wherein the second transformed flow cytometric event data in the second lowerdimensional space is associated with a second bin of the second plurality ofbins.
58. The system of claim 57,
wherein the first bin of the first plurality of bins is associated with a first type of cells of interest,
wherein the second bin of the second plurality of bins is associated with a second type of cells of interest, wherein the second bin of the first plurality of bins is not associated with the first type of cells of interest, wherein the second bin of the first plurality of bins is not associated with the second type of cells of interest,
wherein the first bin of the second plurality of bins is not associated with the second type of cells of interest, and/or wherein the first bin of the second plurality of bins is not associated with the first type of cells of interest.
59. The system of claim 58, wherein a combination of the first bin of the first plurality of bins and the first bin of the second plurality of bins is associated with a first type of cells of interest, and/or wherein a combination of the second bin of the first plurality of bins and the second bin of the second plurality of bins is associated with a second type of cells of interest.
60. The system of claim 59, wherein a combination of the first bin of the first plurality of bins and the second bin of the second plurality of bins is not associated with the first type of cells of interest and the second type of cells of interest, and/or wherein a combination of the second bin of the first plurality of bins and the first bin of the second plurality of bins is not associated with the first type of cells of interest and the second type of cells of interest.
61. The system of any one of claims 35-60, wherein two bins of the first plurality of bins have an identical size.
62. The system of any one of claims 35-61, wherein each bin of the first plurality of bins has an identical size.
63. The system of any one of claims 35-61, wherein two bins of the first plurality of bins have different sizes.
64. The system of any one of claims 35-63, wherein two bins of the first plurality of bins comprise approximately an identical number of transformed flow cytometric eventdata.
65. The system of any one of claims 35-64, wherein each of the first plurality of bins comprises approximately an identical number of transformed flow cytometric event data.
66. The system of any one of claims 35-65, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to: determine a size of each of the first plurality ofbins.
67. The system of claim 66, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to: determine the size of each of the first plurality of bins based on a plurality of gates.
68. The system of any one of claims 66-67, wherein the processor is programmed by the executable instructions to: determine the size of each of the first plurality of bins based on the transformed flow cytometric event data associated with a plurality of cells of interest.
</claims>
</document>
