<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,H04L29/06,H04W12/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BT (BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SAJJAD, ALI
WANG, XIAO-SI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69646017
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NETWORK PROTECTION
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a computer implemented method, computer system and computer program for protecting a network. The method comprises: gathering traffic data for the network; identifying a set of loT devices in the network based on the output from a machine learning model for classifying loT devices using features extracted from the traffic data that are indicative of an loT device; and causing one or more predetermined actions to be taken in respect of the set of loT devices to protect the network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method of protecting a network, the method comprising: gathering traffic data for the network;
identifying a set of loT devices in the network based on the output from a machine learning model for classifying loT devices using features extracted from the traffic data that are indicative of an loT device; and
causing one or more predetermined actions to be taken in respect of the set of loT devices to protect the network.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the method is performed by a router device for the network.
3. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the traffic data comprises indications of one or more, or all, of:
successful network connections;
network connection attempts;
network connection terminations;
packet filtering operations;
network address translation operations;
port translation operations;
network session operations;
layer 2 connections;
access control operations;
authentication operations;
router advertisements;
network boot operations;
DNS requests and responses; and
HTTP requests and responses.
4. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the method further comprises extracting one or more features that are indicative of an loT device from the traffic data.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the one or more features relate to operational parameters of the network traffic.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the one or more features comprise one or more, or all, of:
the number of packets of data transmitted by each device;
the number of packets of data received by each device;
the frequency with which traffic is transmitted by each device;
the frequency with which traffic is received by each device;
the average size of packets of data which are transmitted by each device;
the average size of packets of data which are received by each device;
the variance in the sizes of packets which are transmitted by each device;
the variance in the sizes of packets which are received by each device;
the ratio of traffic-in against traffic-out for each device;
the number of endpoints with which each device communicates;
the average duration of communication sessions for each device;
the typical times when communication sessions occur for each device; and/or the times and duration that each device is online.
7. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the method further comprises generating the machine learning model using an unsupervised machine learning algorithm and a training set of data obtained from previously gathered traffic data for the network, preferably wherein the machine learning algorithm comprises a shallow learning algorithm.
8. The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the method further comprises communicating with another computer system to identify the set of loT devices.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein communicating with the other computer system to identify the set of loT devices comprises:
receiving an indication from the other computer system of one or more features that are indicative of an loT device to be extracted from the traffic data;
extracting the one or more features from the traffic data;
providing the one or more features to the other computer system; and
receiving an indicating of the set of loT devices from the other computer system.
10. The method of claim 8 or claim 9, wherein the method further comprises:
generating a profile of the computational abilities of the routing device; and determining that processing to identify loT devices in the network is to be performed using the processing resources provided by the other computer system based, at least in part, on the profile.
1 1 . The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the one or more
predetermined actions comprise one or more, or all, of:
placing the identified set of loT devices into a separate VLAN;
performing targeted patching of the identified set of loT devices; and/or
comparing the set of loT devices to a previously identified set of loT devices and raising an alarm if there are any differences.
12. A computer-implemented method for protecting a network comprising:
obtaining a machine learning model for identifying loT devices in a network using features extracted from traffic data for that network that are indicative of an loT device; providing an indication to a routing device associated with a network of one or more features that are indicative of an loT device to be extracted from the traffic data;
receiving the one or more features from the routing device;
identifying a set of loT devices in the network using the machine learning model and the one or more received features; and
providing an indication of the set of loT devices to the routing device.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the machine learning model is learnt from training data that is based on the traffic data from a plurality of networks.
14. The method of claim 12 or claim 13, wherein the machine learning algorithm comprises an unsupervised learning algorithm, preferably wherein the machine learning algorithm comprises a deep learning algorithm.
15. The method of any one of claims 12 to 14, wherein the one or more features relate to operational parameters of the network traffic.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the one or more features comprise one or more, or all, of:
the number of packets of data transmitted by each device;
the number of packets of data received by each device;
the frequency with which traffic is transmitted by each device;
the frequency with which traffic is received by each device; the average size of packets of data which are transmitted by each device;
the average size of packets of data which are received by each device;
the variance in the sizes of packets which are transmitted by each device;
the variance in the sizes of packets which are received by each device;
the ratio of traffic-in against traffic-out for each device;
the number of endpoints with which each device communicates;
the average duration of communication sessions for each device;
the typical times when communication sessions occur for each device; and/or the times and duration that each device is online.
17. A computer system for protecting a network comprising a processor and a memory storing computer program code which, when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform a method according to any one of the preceding claims.
18. The computer system of claim 17, wherein the computer system is arranged to function as a router device for the network.
19. A system for protecting a network, the system comprising:
a plurality of router devices, each router device being associated with a respective network and being configured to perform a method according to any one of claims 1 to 1 1 to protect that network; and
a computer system configured to perform a method according to any one of claims 12 to 16.
20. A computer program which, when executed by one or more processors, is arranged to cause the processor to carry out a method according to any one of claims 1 to 16.
</claims>
</document>
