<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G03F7/20,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOVA MEASURING INSTRUMENTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHIFRIN, MICHAEL
GER, Avron
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73028784
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE MANUFACTURE WITH IN-LINE HOTSPOT DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
Controlling semiconductor device manufacture by acquiring training scatterometric signatures collected at training locations on training semiconductor wafers and corresponding to locations within a predefined design of a training semiconductor device, the training signatures collected after predefined processing steps during manufacture of the device on the training wafers, acquiring manufacturing outcome data associated with the training locations, training a prediction model using the training signatures and the manufacturing outcome data, and applying the prediction model to a candidate scatterometric signature to predict a manufacturing outcome, the candidate signature collected at a candidate location on a candidate semiconductor wafer, the candidate location corresponding to a location within the same predefined design of a candidate semiconductor device, the candidate signature collected after any of the processing steps during manufacture of the candidate device on the candidate wafer.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for use in controlling the manufacture of semiconductor devices, the method comprising:
acquiring training scatterometric signatures collected at a plurality of training locations on at least one training semiconductor wafer,
wherein the plurality of training locations correspond to a plurality of locations within a predefined design of a training semiconductor device, and
wherein the training scatterometric signatures are collected after one or more predefined processing steps during manufacture of the at least one training semiconductor device on the at least one training semiconductor wafer;
acquiring manufacturing outcome data associated with any of the training locations; performing machine learning to train a prediction model using the training scatterometric signatures and the manufacturing outcome data; and
applying the prediction model to a candidate scatterometric signature to predict a manufacturing outcome associated with the candidate scatterometric signature,
wherein the candidate scatterometric signature is collected at a candidate location on a candidate semiconductor wafer,
wherein the candidate location corresponds to a location within a predefined design of a candidate semiconductor device,
wherein the predefined design of the candidate semiconductor device is the same as the predefined design of the at least one training semiconductor device, and
wherein the candidate scatterometric signature is collected after one or more of the predefined processing steps during manufacture of the candidate semiconductor device on the candidate semiconductor wafer.
2. The method according to claim 1 wherein any of the predefined processing steps are Chemical-Mechanical Polishing steps.
3. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising determining the training locations using locations of possible hotspots determined by Design For Manufacturing hotspot simulation.
4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the acquiring manufacturing outcome data comprises using at least one reference tool to detect a hotspot at any of the training locations.
5. The method according to claim 1 wherein the acquiring manufacturing outcome data comprises using at least one reference tool to detect at any of the training locations a manufacturing defect known to be associated with hotspots.
6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the acquiring manufacturing outcome data comprises detecting an electrical fault related to any of the training locations.
7. The method according to claim 1 wherein the acquiring manufacturing outcome data comprises collecting a measurement value of a physical feature characteristic at any of the training locations.
8. The method according to claim 7 wherein the physical feature is any of a) structural geometry and b) material composition.
9. The method according to claim 1 wherein the acquiring manufacturing outcome data comprises associating a manufacturing defect of unknown type with any of the training locations whose training scatterometric signatures are identified, in accordance with predefined criteria for determining statistical outliers, as a statistical outlier relative to the training scatterometric signatures of others of the training locations.
10. The method according to claim 1 wherein the applying the prediction model is performed during manufacture of the candidate semiconductor device.
11. The method according to claim 1 wherein the applying the prediction model is performed upon acquiring the candidate scatterometric signature. 12. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising modifying any aspect of a manufacturing process used to manufacture any semiconductor device of the predefined design, wherein the modifying is performed responsive to the predicted manufacturing outcome.
13. A system for use in controlling the manufacture of semiconductor devices, the system comprising:
a scatterometric signature acquisition tool configured to acquire training scatterometric signatures collected at a plurality of training locations on at least one training semiconductor wafer,
wherein the plurality of training locations correspond to a plurality of locations within a predefined design of a training semiconductor device, and
wherein the training scatterometric signatures are collected after one or more predefined processing steps during manufacture of the at least one training semiconductor device on the at least one training semiconductor wafer;
a manufacturing outcome data acquisition tool configured to acquire manufacturing outcome data associated with any of the training locations;
a machine learning unit configured to perform machine learning to train a prediction model using the training scatterometric signatures and the manufacturing outcome data; and a prediction unit configured to apply the prediction model to a candidate scatterometric signature to predict a manufacturing outcome associated with the candidate scatterometric signature,
wherein the candidate location corresponds to a location within a predefined design of a candidate semiconductor device,
wherein the predefined design of the candidate semiconductor device is the same as the predefined design of the at least one training semiconductor device, and
wherein the candidate scatterometric signature is collected after one or more of the predefined processing steps during manufacture of the candidate semiconductor device on the candidate semiconductor wafer.
14. The system according to claim 13 wherein any of the predefined processing steps are Chemical-Mechanical Polishing steps. 15. The system according to claim 13 wherein the training locations correspond to locations of possible hotspots determined by Design For Manufacturing hotspot simulation.
16. The system according to claim 13 wherein the manufacturing outcome data are acquired using at least one reference tool to detect a hotspot at any of the training locations.
17. The system according to claim 13 wherein the manufacturing outcome data are acquired using at least one reference tool to detect at any of the training locations a manufacturing defect known to be associated with hotspots.
18. The system according to claim 13 wherein the manufacturing outcome data are acquired by detecting an electrical fault related to any of the training locations.
19. The system according to claim 13 wherein the manufacturing outcome data are acquired by collecting a measurement value of a physical feature characteristic at any of the training locations.
20. The system according to claim 19 wherein the physical feature is any of a) structural geometry and b) material composition.
21. The system according to claim 13 wherein the manufacturing outcome data indicate a manufacturing defect of unknown type associated with any of the training locations whose training scatterometric signature is identified, in accordance with predefined criteria for determining statistical outliers, as a statistical outlier relative to the training scatterometric signatures of others of the training locations.
22. The system according to claim 13 wherein the prediction unit is configured to apply the prediction model during manufacture of the candidate semiconductor device.
23. The system according to claim 13 wherein the prediction unit is configured to apply the prediction model upon acquiring the candidate scatterometric signature. 24. The system according to claim 13 wherein the prediction unit is configured to provide a notification, indicating the predicted manufacturing outcome, to a recipient configured to modify, responsive to the predicted manufacturing outcome, any aspect of a manufacturing process used to manufacture any semiconductor device of the predefined design.
</claims>
</document>
