<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H03M7/30,H04B10/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, WEI-CHEN
HASSAN, AMER AREF
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70416482
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POWER-BASED ENCODING OF DATA TO BE TRANSMITTED OVER AN OPTICAL COMMUNICATION PATH
</title>

<abstract>
A system for transmitting data over an optical communication path is configured to receive data to be encoded in a bitstream for transmission using an optical communication path and encodes the received data to obtain a bitstream. The system is further configured to determine that the bitstream includes a sequence of consecutive bits, and obtain a power level at which to transmit a portion of the bitstream based on a count of the consecutive bits in the sequence. The system may be configured to selectively activate a light source at a power level according to a modulation scheme to optically transmit the portion of the bitstream at the power level.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for transmitting data over an optical communication path, the method comprising:
receiving a bitstream for transmission over the optical communication path;
determining a first sequence of bits in the bitstream that comprise a plurality of consecutive same first values;
packetizing the sequence of bits into a plurality of transmission packets by maximizing a number of bits assignable to each packet while still having a corresponding transmission power for each packet that is not greater than a threshold transmission power, the transmission power of each particular packet determined by applying a mapping of a number of bits in each packet, the mapping comprising a plurality of packet sizes and corresponding power levels, wherein the mapping increases transmission power as the number of bits increase;
determining that a first packet of one of the plurality of transmission packets is transmitting at a first power level corresponding to the threshold transmission power and that a second packet of one of the plurality of transmission packets is transmitting at a second power level that is less than the threshold level;
moving a bit from the first packet to the second packet such that the power level of the first packet, as determined by the mapping, is lowered and the second power level of the second packet, as determined by the mapping, is raised such that both the first and second power levels are below the threshold transmission power;
selectively activating a light source at the first power level according to the modulation scheme to optically transmit the entire first packet by transmitting a single bit of the same first value at the lowered first power level; and
selectively activating the light source at the raised second power level according to the modulation scheme to optically transmit the entire second packet by transmitting a single bit of the same first value at the second power level.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the threshold power is a maximum power configured for transmission.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the threshold power level is less than a maximum power configured for transmission.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the method comprises determining the threshold power based upon historical past power levels at which the light source was activated.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the mapping maps a first number of bits to a first power level, a second number of bits greater than the first number of bits to a second power level greater than the first power level and a third number of bits greater than the second number of bits to a third power level greater than the second power level.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the modulation scheme is one of: a quadrature phase shift keying (QPSK), binary phase shift keying (BPSK), phase-shift keying (PSK), Quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM), or an amplitude and phase shift keying
(APSK).
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the optical communication path is a fiber optic and wherein selectively activating the light source at the first power level according to the modulation scheme comprises transmitting photons across the fiber optic.
8. The method of any of claims 1-7, wherein activating the light source at the first power level to transmit the entire first packet requires less time than a total time required to activate the light source to transmit each bit of the first packet individually.
9. A system for transmitting data over an optical communication path, the system comprising:
a hardware processor; and
a computer-readable storage device having computer-executable instructions stored thereon, which when executed by the hardware processor, configure the system to:
receive a bitstream for transmission over the optical communication path; determine a first sequence of bits in the bitstream that comprise a plurality of consecutive same first values;
packetize the sequence of bits into a plurality of transmission packets by maximizing a number of bits assignable to each packet while still having a corresponding transmission power for each packet that is not greater than a threshold transmission power, the transmission power of each particular packet determined by applying a mapping of a number of bits in each packet, the mapping comprising a plurality of packet sizes and corresponding power levels, wherein the mapping increases transmission power as the number of bits increase;
determine that a first packet of one of the plurality of transmission packets is transmitting at a first power level corresponding to the threshold transmission power and that a second packet of one of the plurality of transmission packets is transmitting at a second power level that is less than the threshold level;
move a bit from the first packet to the second packet such that the power level of the first packet, as determined by the mapping, is lowered and the second power level of the second packet, as determined by the mapping, is raised such that both the first and second power levels are below the threshold transmission power; selectively activate a light source at the first power level according to the modulation scheme to optically transmit the entire first packet by transmitting a single bit of the same first value at the lowered first power level; and
selectively activate the light source at the raised second power level according to the modulation scheme to optically transmit the entire second packet by transmitting a single bit of the same first value at the second power level.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the threshold power is a maximum power configured for transmission.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the threshold power level is less than a maximum power configured for transmission.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the method comprises determining the threshold power based upon historical past power levels at which the light source was activated.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the mapping maps a first number of bits to a first power level, a second number of bits greater than the first number of bits to a second power level greater than the first power level and a third number of bits greater than the second number of bits to a third power level greater than the second power level.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the modulation scheme is one of: a quadrature phase shift keying (QPSK), binary phase shift keying (BPSK), phase-shift keying (PSK), Quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM), or an amplitude and phase shift keying
(APSK).
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the optical communication path is a fiber optic and wherein selectively activating the light source at the first power level according to the modulation scheme comprises transmitting photons across the fiber optic.
</claims>
</document>
