<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-22
</priority_date>

<assignee>
VITALTECH PROPERTIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
IANACE, PETER
PANNEER SELVAM, ANJAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72611728
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DAILY ACTIVITY SENSOR AND SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for monitoring activities of a user. Sensor measurements are performed utilizing a sensor array of sensor tags. User activities are detected utilizing the sensor array of the sensor tags. The user activities are communicated to a hub associated with the sensor array of sensor tags.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for monitoring activities of a user, the method comprising:
providing a plurality of sensor tags and a hub in operative communication with the plurality of sensor tags, each of the plurality of sensor tags is configured to sense at least one parameter;
associating each of the plurality of sensor tags with one of an item and a user, wherein a first of the plurality of sensor tags is positioned on an item not worn by the user;
sensing the at least one parameter for the plurality of sensor tags;
communicating the at least one parameter for the plurality of sensor tags to a hub; applying at least the at least one parameter of the first of the plurality of sensor tags to a model using a processor of the hub in order to characterize a user activity; and performing an action based on the user activity characterized using the model, wherein the action comprises at least one of storing the user activity on a memory of the hub, communicating the user activity from the hub to a remote device, and communicating an alert.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein a second of the plurality of sensor tags is worn by the user and senses at least a second parameter that is included with the at least one parameter.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
calibrating each of the plurality of sensor tags for the item and the user.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
performing machine learning based on the user activities.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the communicating further comprises:
determining whether there is an emergency in response to 1) an impact of the user,
2) user movement exceeding a threshold, 3) a location of the user not conforming with expected data, 4) determining there is an environmental problem in the location of the user, and 5) determining that overall sensors and historical trends indicate a potential problem.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
determining at least a position and an orientation of the user.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the alert is one or more emergency alerts send to one or more users and devices that are authorized to receive the alert.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the environmental problem includes one or more of the heat, cold, fire or smoke, and flooding.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
activating each of the plurality of sensor tags;
associating each of the plurality of sensor tags with an item or user; and
enabling communications of the plurality of sensor tags.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the activating is performed utilizing a wireless device, and wherein the communications of the sensor tags are performed through a network, utilizing a mesh network of the sensor tags, or communications with the wireless device.
11. A system for determining daily activities of a user, comprising:
a plurality of sensor tags performing sensor measurements configured to detect a user, user movements, user biometrics, and environmental conditions;
a hub in communication with the sensor tags receives the sensor measurements from the plurality of sensor tags and communicating alerts associated with the sensor measurements.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of sensor tags are controlled by an electronic device in communication with one or more of the plurality of sensor tags.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of sensor tags and the hub communicate utilizing a mesh network.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein one or more of the plurality of sensors include a logic engine in communication with the plurality of sensors that analyze the measurements and communicate status of the user to one or more designated parties.
15. The system of claim 11, determining whether there is an emergency in response to 1) an impact of the user, 2) user movement exceeding a threshold, 3) a location of the user not conforming with expected data, 4) determining there is an environmental problem in the location of the user, and 5) determining that overall sensors and historical trends indicate a potential problem.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein sensor tag is activated utilizing a wireless device executing an application for managing the sensor tag, wherein the sensor tag is associated with an item or user, and wherein communications are enabled through one or more devices.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the logic engine communicates an alert to the one or more designated parties, wherein the plurality of sensors are attached to one or more pieces of furniture, mobility devices, and a user.
18. A sensor tag, comprising:
a battery powering the sensor tag;
a logic engine in communication with the battery;
one or more transceivers in communication with the logic engine for
communicating with at least a hub;
a plurality of sensors in communication with the logic engine performing sensor measurements, wherein the logic engine determines user activities utilizing the sensor measurements from the plurality of sensors; and communicate the user activities to a hub associated with the sensor tag utilizing the one or more transceivers.
19. The sensor tag of claim 18, wherein set of instructions are further executed to: activate the sensor tag utilizing a wireless device executing an application for managing the sensor tag;
associate the sensor tag with an item or user; and
enable communications with the sensor tag through one or more devices.
20. The sensor tag of claim 18, wherein the set of instructions determine whether there is an emergency in response to 1) an impact of the user, 2) user movement exceeding a threshold, 3) a location of the user not conforming with expected data, 4) determining there is an environmental problem in the location of the user, and 5) determining that overall sensors and historical trends indicate a potential problem.
</claims>
</document>
