<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/063
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SILICON STORAGE TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HONG, STANLEY
LY, ANH
NGUYEN, KHA
PHAM, HIEN
TRAN HIEU VAN
TRAN, HAN
TRINH, STEPHEN
VU, THUAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72921758
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DECODING SYSTEM AND PHYSICAL LAYOUT FOR ANALOG NEURAL MEMORY IN DEEP LEARNING ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments of word line decoders, control gate decoders, bit line decoders, low voltage row decoders, and high voltage row decoders and various types of physical layout designs for non-volatile flash memory arrays in an analog neural system are disclosed. Shared and segmented embodiments of high voltage row decoders are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An analog neural memory system comprising:
a vector-by-matrix multiplication array comprising an array of non-volatile memory cells organized into rows and columns, wherein each memory cell comprises a bit line terminal, a source line terminal, and a word line terminal;
a plurality of bit lines, wherein each of the plurality of bit lines is coupled to the bit line terminals of a column of memory cells;
a plurality of word lines, wherein each of the plurality of word lines is coupled to the word line terminals of a row of memory cells; and
a plurality of source lines, wherein each of the plurality of source lines is coupled to the source line terminals of one or more rows of memory cells;
wherein the plurality of word lines are parallel to the plurality of bit lines and
perpendicular to the plurality of source lines.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are split-gate flash memory cells.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are stacked-gate flash memory cells.
4. An analog neural memory system comprising:
a vector-by-matrix multiplication array comprising an array of non-volatile memory cells organized into rows and columns, wherein each memory cell comprises a bit line terminal, a control gate terminal, and a word line terminal;
a plurality of bit lines, wherein each of the plurality of bit lines is coupled to the bit line terminals of a column of memory cells;
a plurality of control gate lines, wherein each of the plurality of control gate lines is coupled to the control gate terminals of a row of memory cells; and
a plurality of word lines, wherein each of the plurality of word lines is coupled to the word line terminals of a row of memory cells;
wherein the plurality of control gate lines are parallel to the plurality of bit lines and perpendicular to the plurality of word lines.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are split-gate flash memory cells.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are stacked-gate flash memory cells.
7. An analog neural memory system comprising:
a plurality of vector-by-matrix multiplication arrays, each array comprising non-volatile memory cells organized into rows and columns;
a plurality of low voltage row decoders, each low voltage row decoder providing a row decoder function for one of the plurality of vector-by-matrix multiplication arrays; and
a plurality of global high voltage row decoders, each global high voltage row decoder shared by two of the plurality of vector-by-matrix multiplication arrays and providing high voltage signals to two of the plurality of low voltage row decoders.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are split-gate flash memory cells.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are stacked-gate flash memory cells.
10. An analog neural memory system comprising:
a vector-by-matrix multiplication array comprising an array of non-volatile memory cells organized into rows and columns, wherein each memory cell comprises a control gate terminal and a word line terminal;
a plurality of word lines, wherein each of the plurality of word lines is coupled to the word line terminals of a row of memory cells;
a plurality of control gate lines, wherein each of the plurality of control gate lines is coupled to the control gate terminals of a row of memory cells; and
a plurality of decoders, each decoder selectively coupled to one or both of the plurality of word lines for providing a row decoder function and the plurality of control gate lines for providing a control gate decoder function.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the decoder is selectively coupled to the plurality of word lines, and wherein the row decoder function can be selected or de-selected.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the decoder is selectively coupled to the control gate lines, and wherein the control gate decoder function can be selected or de-selected.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the decoder is further selectively coupled to the control gate lines, and wherein the control gate decoder function can be selected or de-selected.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are split-gate flash memory cells.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are stacked-gate flash memory cells.
16. An analog neural memory system comprising:
a vector-by-matrix multiplication array comprising an array of non-volatile memory cells organized into rows and columns, wherein each memory cell comprises a bit line terminal, a source line terminal, a control gate terminal, and a word line terminal;
a plurality of bit lines, wherein each of the plurality of bit lines is coupled to the bit line terminals of a column of memory cells;
a plurality of word lines, wherein each of the plurality of word lines is coupled to the word line terminals of a row of memory cells;
a plurality of control gate lines, wherein each of the plurality of control gate lines is coupled to the control gate terminals of a row of memory cells;
a plurality of source lines, wherein each of the plurality of source lines is coupled to the source line terminals of two rows of memory cells;
an output block coupled to the plurality of bit lines;
an input block coupled to the plurality of word lines, the plurality of control gate lines, or the plurality of source lines; and
a multiplexor for receiving bits from the output block and providing a portion of the bits to the input block or an input block coupled to another vector-by-matrix multiplication array in response to control signals.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are split-gate flash memory cells.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are stacked-gate flash memory cells.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the multiplexor is a time-division multiplexor. 20. An analog neural memory system comprising:
a vector-by-matrix multiplication array comprising an array of non-volatile memory cells organized into rows and columns, wherein each memory cell comprises a bit line terminal, a source line terminal, and a word line terminal;
a plurality of bit lines, wherein each of the plurality of bit lines is coupled to the bit line terminals of a column of memory cells;
a plurality of word lines, wherein each of the plurality of word lines is coupled to the word line terminals of a row of memory cells through one or more routing blocks; and
a plurality of source lines, wherein each of the plurality of source lines is coupled to the source line terminals of two rows of memory cells;
wherein the plurality of word lines are parallel to the plurality of bit lines and
perpendicular to the plurality of source lines; and
wherein the one or more routing blocks couple the plurality of word lines to the word line terminals of a row of memory cells, where the row is arranged in a direction perpendicular to the plurality of word lines.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are split-gate flash memory cells.
22. The system of claim 20, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are stacked-gate flash memory cells.
23. An analog neural memory system comprising:
a plurality of global bit lines;
a plurality of sense amplifiers, each of the plurality of sense amplifiers coupled to one of the plurality of global bit lines;
a column multiplexor coupled to the plurality of global bit lines for selecting one or more of the plurality of global bit lines for a program and verify operation; and
a plurality of vector-by-matrix multiplication arrays, each vector-by-matrix multiplication array comprising:
an array of non-volatile memory cells organized into rows and columns, each memory cell comprising a bit line terminal; a plurality of local bit lines, each of the plurality of local bit lines coupled to the bit line terminals of a respective column of memory cells in the array; and a plurality of multiplexors for coupling the plurality of local bit lines to the
plurality of global bit lines;
wherein the column multiplexor and the plurality of sense amplifiers are shared by the plurality of vector-by-matrix multiplication arrays.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are split-gate flash memory cells.
25. The system of claim 23, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are stacked-gate flash memory cells.
26. The system of claim 23, wherein the sense amplifier is an analog to digital converter.
27. An analog neural memory system comprising:
a first vector-by-matrix multiplication array comprising an array of non-volatile memory cells organized into rows and columns, each memory cell comprising a bit line terminal and a control gate terminal;
a second vector-by-matrix multiplication array comprising an array of non-volatile memory cells organized into rows and columns, each memory cell comprising a bit line terminal, a word line terminal, and a control gate terminal;
a high voltage row decoder for applying a high voltage to word line terminals of cells in a selected row in the first vector-by-matrix multiplication array and a selected row in the second vector-by-matrix multiplication array;
a first set of control gate lines, each of the control gate lines coupled to control gate terminals of a row of cells in the first vector-by-matrix multiplication array and not coupled to the second vector-by-matrix multiplication array; and
a second set of control gate lines, each of the control gate lines coupled to control gate terminals of a row of cells in the second vector-by-matrix multiplication array and not coupled to the first vector-by-matrix multiplication array.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are split-gate flash memory cells.
29. The system of claim 27, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are stacked-gate flash memory cells.
30. An analog neural memory system comprising:
a plurality of vector-by-matrix multiplication arrays, each vector-by-matrix multiplication array comprising an array of non-volatile memory cells organized into rows and columns, wherein each memory cell comprises a word line terminal;
a plurality of read row decoders, each read row decoder coupled to one of the plurality of vector-by-matrix multiplication arrays for applying a voltage to one or more selected rows during a read operation;
a shared program row decoder coupled to all of the plurality of vector-by-matrix multiplication arrays for applying a voltage to one or more selected rows in one or more of the vector-by-matrix multiplication arrays during a program operation.
31. The system of claim 30, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are split-gate flash memory cells.
32. The system of claim 30, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are stacked-gate flash memory cells.
33. An analog neural memory system comprising:
a plurality of vector-by-matrix multiplication arrays, each array comprising non-volatile memory cells organized into rows and columns;
a plurality of low voltage row decoders, each low voltage row decoder providing a row decoder function for one of the plurality of vector-by-matrix multiplication arrays; and
a high voltage row decoder shared by the plurality of vector-by-matrix multiplication arrays and providing high voltage signals to one or more terminals of one or more non-volatile memory cells in an array
34. The system of claim 33, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are split-gate flash memory cells.
35. The system of claim 33, wherein the non-volatile memory cells are stacked-gate flash memory cells.
</claims>
</document>
