<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRATOS PERCEPTION LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
WILLIAMS, Rube
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72666949
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MONITORING AND CONTROLLING A MULTI-PHASE FLUID FLOW
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for monitoring and controlling dynamic multi-phase flow phenomena, capable of sensing, detecting, quantifying, and inferring characteristics, properties, and compositions (including static and dynamic characteristics, properties and compositions). The systems combine machine vision and mathematical models, which enables direct observation and detection of static and dynamic multi-phase fluid flow properties and phenomena (e.g. voids, waves, shadows, dimples, wrinkles, foam, bubbles, particulates, discrete materials, collections of materials, and position) and inferring other properties and phenomena (e.g. flow regimes, bubble velocities and accelerations, material deposition rates, erosion rates, phasic critical behavioral points as related to heat transfer, and the volumetric and mass flow rates of the phases) that are used to monitor and control systems applied to a multi-phase fluid flow system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for monitoring a multi-phase fluid flow, comprising:
a preprocessor for receiving, filtering, and formatting digital images of the multi phase fluid flow;
a processor that includes a neural network learning algorithm linked to the preprocessor for receiving the preprocessed digital images, identifying phenomena related to the multi-phase fluid flow in the preprocessed digital images and quantifying the relative positions and geometries of the phenomena based on the digital images; and
a post processor linked to the processor for receiving the identified phenomena, receiving the quantified relative positions and geometries of the phenomena, deriving dynamic attributes of the identified phenomena and inferring other attributes related to the multi-phase fluid flow.
2. The system of claim 1 , further comprising a camera linked to the preprocessor for capturing the digital images of the multi-phase fluid flow in real-time and transmitting the digital images to the preprocessor.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one of a pump, a valve, a separator, a rotator, a slider, and a propulsion device linked to the controller for controlling the multi-phase fluid flow.
4. The system of claim 3, further comprising a heat exchanger linked to one of the pump, the valve, the separator, the rotator, the slider, and the propulsion device for receiving the multi-phase fluid flow.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein the camera is adapted to capture digital images by electromagnetic radiation in at least one of a visible spectrum, an infrared spectrum, and an electromagnetic radiation spectrum.
6. The system of claim 2, wherein the camera is adapted to capture digital images by ultrasonic imaging.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the multi -phase fluid flow comprises one of a channel flow, a planar flow, a spheroidal flow, a porous-media flow, and a free trajectory flow.
8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a controller for controlling the multi-phase fluid flow based on at least one of the identified phenomena, the quantified relative positions and geometries of the phenomena, the derived dynamic attributes of the phenomena, and the inferred other attributes.
9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a controller for controlling a system that is dependent on the multi-phase fluid flow based on at least one of the identified phenomena, the quantified relative positions and geometries of the phenomena, the derived dynamic attributes of the phenomena, and the inferred other attributes.
10. A method for monitoring a multi -phase fluid flow, comprising:
capturing at least one attribute of the multi-phase fluid flow;
identifying phenomena related to the multi-phase fluid flow based on the at least one attribute of the multi-phase fluid flow;
quantifying the relative positions and geometries of the phenomena; and deriving dynamic attributes related to the phenomena by correlating relative positions and geometries of the phenomena based on a sequence of the at least one attribute captured over a predetermined time-period;
inferring other attributes related to the multi-phase fluid flow based on the identified phenomena, the quantified relative positions and geometries of the phenomena and the derived dynamic attributes related to the phenomena.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising controlling the multi-phase fluid flow based on at least one of the identified phenomena, the quantified relative positions and geometries of the phenomena and the derived dynamic attributes related to the phenomena.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising controlling a system dependent on the multi phase fluid flow based on at least one of the identified phenomena, the quantified relative positions and geometries of the phenomena and the derived dynamic attributes related to the phenomena.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the multi-phase fluid flow is controlled by a controller linked to at least one of a pump, a valve, a separator, a rotator, a slider, and a propulsion device.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the multi-phase fluid flow comprises one of a channel flow, a planar flow, a spheroidal flow, a porous-media flow, and a free trajectory flow.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the phenomena includes at least one of a void, a wave, a shadow, a dimple, a wrinkle, foam, a bubble, a particulate, a velocity, an acceleration, a material deposition rate, an erosion rate, a phasic critical behavior point related to heat transfer, a fluid dynamic property, a thermodynamic property, a thermophysical property, an optical property, a physical property, and a volumetric and mass flow rate.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one attribute includes at least one of a digital image, sound and odor.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein the quantified relative positions and geometries of the phenomena are determined by superimposing polygons around the phenomena identified with vertices assigned from a coordinate system.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein the quantified relative positions and geometries of the phenomena are determined by utilizing image segmentation methods.
19. The method of claim 10, wherein the phenomena are identified and correlated with the quantified relative positions and geometries of the phenomena by a processor that includes a neural network learning algorithm.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the processor comprises a convolutional neural network with an object detection algorithm.
21. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one attribute may be captured by at least one of a video camera, a still photography camera, and a prerecorded media.
</claims>
</document>
