<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12N15/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC GENEART
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOFMEISTER, THOMAS
KUHN, PHILLIP
PUETZSCHLER, Joern
KONOVALOVA, Tatiana
NETUSCHIL, Nikolai
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66810026
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTIPLEX ASSEMBLY OF NUCLEIC ACID MOLECULES
</title>

<abstract>
Compositions and methods are provided herein for high throughput synthesis and assembly of nucleic acid molecules. Specific aspects include methods and rules for designing, grouping and pooling of nucleic acid molecules for efficient multiplex assembly, amplification, processing and analysis to obtain error-free assembly products. Provided compositions and methods allow for miniaturization, parallelization, high throughput production and scaling, and cost reduction in gene synthesis workflows.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for multiplexed assembly of two or more predefined nucleic acid fragments in multiple reaction compartments comprising the following steps:
(a) designing a plurality of oligonucleotide sequences together comprising the sequences of the two or more predefined nucleic acid fragments and synthesizing the oligonucleotides to obtain a plurality of single-stranded oligonucleotides,
(b) selectively retrieving a first and a second and optionally one or more further sub-set of the plurality of single-stranded oligonucleotides, wherein the oligonucleotides of each sub-set are components of two or more predefined nucleic acid fragments, and wherein all oligonucleotides belonging to one of the two or more predefined nucleic acid fragments share a region of sequence complementarity with at least one other oligonucleotide belonging to the same nucleic acid fragment,
(c) pooling the oligonucleotides of the first sub-set into a first reaction compartment, the second sub-set into a second reaction compartment and optionally pooling the one or more further sub-sets into one or more further reaction compartments, and
(d) simultaneously assembling under suitable conditions the two or more nucleic acid fragments in the first, second and optionally further reaction compartments.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of single-stranded oligonucleotides is synthesized on individual supports, wherein each support is located at an addressable position of a common carrier, optionally wherein the carrier is an array or a microfluidic chip.
3. The method of any previous claim, wherein the plurality of single-stranded
oligonucleotides are bound to individual supports and wherein the selectively retrieving and pooling of sub-sets of oligonucleotides comprises selectively retrieving and pooling individual supports to which the oligonucleotides are bound and releasing the
oligonucleotides from the pooled supports and separating the oligonucleotides from the supports prior to assembling the two or more nucleic acid fragments.
4. The method of any previous claim, wherein each single-stranded oligonucleotide of the plurality of oligonucleotides is synthesized at an amount of between about 10 fmol and about 10 pmol.
5. The method of any previous claim, wherein the oligonucleotides that form termini of the two or more nucleic acid fragments comprise a linker region at one end, optionally wherein the linker region comprises a universal primer binding site and/or a restriction enzyme cleavage site.
6. The method of any previous claim, wherein at least a portion of the oligonucleotides that form termini of the two or more nucleic acid fragments comprise an assembly tag, wherein the assembly tag has a length and base composition designed to (i) adjust the length of one or more fragments in a reaction compartment and/or (ii) adjust the GC content of one or more fragments in a reaction compartment.
7. The method of any previous claim, wherein the oligonucleotides that form internal regions of the two or more nucleic acid fragments do not comprise a universal primer binding site and/or a restriction enzyme cleavage site.
8. The method of any previous claim, wherein the single-stranded oligonucleotides are not amplified prior to the pooling and/or assembly.
9. The method of any previous claim, wherein pooling the sub-sets of oligonucleotides comprises: grouping the first, second and optionally further sub-sets of oligonucleotides to minimize cross-hybridization between oligonucleotides belonging to different nucleic acid fragments.
10. The method of any previous claim, wherein pooling the sub-sets of oligonucleotides comprises: grouping the first, second and optionally further sub-sets of oligonucleotides according to fragment GC content, optionally wherein the two or more nucleic acid fragments assembled in each reaction compartment do not deviate by more than 10% in GC content.
11. The method of any previous claim, wherein pooling the sub-sets of oligonucleotides comprises: grouping the first, second and optionally further sub-sets of oligonucleotides according to fragment length, optionally wherein the two or more nucleic acid fragments assembled in each reaction compartment do not deviate by more than 10% in length.
12. The method of any previous claim wherein pooling the sub-sets of oligonucleotides comprises: grouping the first, second and optionally further sub-sets of oligonucleotides according to fragment similarity.
13. The method of any previous claim, wherein the two or more nucleic acid fragments assembled in a reaction compartment are non-similar and wherein similarity of two nucleic acid fragments is determined based on a pairwise alignment of the fragment sequences, division of the aligned sequences into matching blocks and irrelevant blocks and counting of the irrelevant blocks, optionally wherein the number of irrelevant blocks is <3.
14. The method of any previous claims, wherein the pooling of oligonucleotides for assembling S fragments into Pmax reaction compartments comprises:
(i) determining whether two fragments harmonize taking into account fragment length, fragment GC content and fragment similarity,
(ii) defining an undirected graph with nodes, wherein each node represents a fragment S and wherein an edge between two nodes is present if the two fragments do not harmonize;
(iii) coloring the nodes of the undirected graph with as few colors P as possible, wherein each color represents a reaction compartment and wherein each color is used at most Smax times,
(iv) determining the amount of used colors P;
(v) assigning the Smax fragments to Pmax reaction compartments, wherein all fragments S with the same color are assigned to the same reaction compartment, and
(vi) pooling the oligonucleotides into the assigned reaction compartments.
15. The method of any previous claim, wherein the number of different oligonucleotides in a sub-set is between 6 and 200.
16. The method of any previous claim, wherein the number of nucleic acid fragments simultaneously assembled in each reaction compartment is between 3 and about 20.
17. The method of any previous claim, wherein each assembled nucleic acid fragment comprises a linker region at both ends, wherein the linker region comprises a universal primer binding site and optionally a restriction enzyme cleavage site.
18. The method of claims 5 to 17, further comprising:
amplifying the assembled two or more nucleic acid fragments with a universal primer pair binding to the universal primer binding sites in the linker region.
19. The method of any one of claims 5 to 17, wherein each assembled nucleic acid fragment further comprises a specific primer binding site at one or both ends, optionally flanking the universal primer binding site.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the specific primer binding sites differ for all nucleic acid fragments assembled in the same reaction compartment.
21. The method of claim 19 or 20, wherein the same one or more specific primer binding sites are present in nucleic acid fragments assembled in different reaction compartments.
22. The method of any one of claims 19 to 21, further comprising:
amplifying the assembled two or more nucleic acid fragments with two or more fragmentspecific primers or primer pairs binding to the specific primer binding sites, optionally wherein the two or more fragment-specific primers or primer pairs are provided at different concentrations.
23. The method of any previous claim, further comprising:
combining at least a portion of a first assembly pool comprising the two or more nucleic acid fragments of the first reaction compartment and at least a portion of a second assembly pool comprising the two or more nucleic acid fragments of the second reaction compartment and optionally portions of further assembly pools comprising the two or more nucleic acid fragments of further reaction compartments to obtain a mixture of assembled nucleic acid fragments from multiple assembly pools.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the combining comprises:
(i) providing a target reaction compartment,
(ii) assigning a dilution factor to each assembly pool, wherein the dilution factor indicates the degree of dilution of an assembly pool in the target reaction compartment and wherein the dilution factor is determined based on one or more sequence parameters of the two or more nucleic acid fragments present in a pool,
(iii) optionally determining the concentration of the nucleic acid fragments in each assembly pool and optionally adjusting the nucleic acid concentration in one or more of the assembly pools to obtain equimolar nucleic acid solutions,
(iv) combining a first quantity of the first assembly pool and at least a second quantity of the second assembly pool into the target reaction compartment, wherein the first and at least second quantities are determined based on the dilution factors assigned to the first and at least second assembly pools.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the sequence parameters for determining dilution factors are selected from one or more of fragment length, GC content, complex DNA regions, number of distinct nucleic acid fragments per assembly pool, nucleic acid concentration, and/or number of screening repetitions.
26. The method of any previous claim, further comprising:
tagging and optionally amplifying at least a portion of the nucleic acid fragments to obtain tagged nucleic acid fragments,
sequencing at least a portion of the nucleic acid fragments to obtain sequencing reads, and analyzing the sequencing reads to identify one or more error-free nucleic acid fragment.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising:
detecting that one or more nucleic acid fragments contain one or more errors or are not represented or underrepresented by the analyzed sequencing reads,
identifying the one or more reaction compartments in which the one or more nucleic acid fragments were assembled, and
selectively amplifying the one or more nucleic acid fragments from the one or more reaction compartments using the specific primer binding sites according to claim 19.
28. The method of anyone of claim 26 or 27, further comprising:
retrieving one or more error-free nucleic acid fragments.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the retrieving one or more error-free nucleic acid fragments comprises dial-out PCR, hybridization selection, pickand place using robotic micropipette, sniper cloning or laser-based extraction.
30. The method of claim 26, further comprising using the analyzed sequencing reads to determine the representation and correctness of the assembled nucleic acid fragments and adjusting the steps of grouping and pooling the first, second and optionally further sub-sets of oligonucleotides.
</claims>
</document>
