<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/02,G06N3/08,G16H10/60,G16H50/30,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
3M INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY (MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
IMBURGIA, JULIE L.
RADDATZ, NICHOLAS J.
ROCCO, DOMINICK R.
SALOMON, JULIE A.
SEESE, JEFFREY S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71516398
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DOCUMENT IMPROVEMENT PRIORITIZATION USING AUTOMATED GENERATED CODES
</title>

<abstract>
A computer implemented method includes receiving text-based clinical documentation corresponding to a patient treated at a healthcare facility, converting the text-based clinical documentation to create a machine compatible converted input having multiple features, providing the converted input to a trained machine learning model that has been trained based on a training set of historical converted clinical documentation by the first entity, receiving a prediction from the trained machine learning model, wherein the prediction corresponds to at least one of a predicted diagnostic related group (DRG) code or a set of predictions comprising a predicted principal diagnosis code for provision to a DRG calculator to determine the DRG code, and assign a priority score at least partially based on the prediction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method comprising:
receiving text-based clinical documentation corresponding to a patient treated at a healthcare facility;
converting the text-based clinical documentation to create a machine compatible converted input having multiple features;
providing the converted input to a trained machine learning model that has been trained based on a training set of historical converted clinical documentation by the first entity;
receiving a prediction from the trained machine learning model, wherein the prediction corresponds to at least one of a predicted diagnostic related group (DRG) code or a set of predictions comprising a predicted principal diagnosis code for provision to a DRG calculator to determine the DRG code; and
assigning a priority score at least partially based on the prediction.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein converting the text-based clinical documentation comprises separating punctuation marks from text in the request and treating individual entities as tokens.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein converting is performed by a natural language processing machine.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein set of predictions comprises one or more predicted secondary diagnosis codes and zero or more predicted procedure codes.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the prediction is assigned with a priority weight and the assigned priority score is calculated based on the priority weight.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the machine learning model for predicting the DRG code is trained on the training set that includes an associated DRG code
corresponding to each treated patient in the historical converted clinical documentation.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the machine learning model for predicting the set of predictions is trained on the training set that includes an associated diagnosis or procedure code corresponding to each treated patient in the historical converted clinical documentation.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein the training set includes multiple secondary diagnosis codes and procedure codes for one or more treated patients in the historical converted clinical documentation.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein the trained machine learning mode! comprises a classification model.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein the trained machine learning model comprises a recurrent or convolutional neural network.
11. A machine-readable storage device having instructions for execution by a processor of a machine to cause the processor to perform operations to perform a method, the operations comprising:
receiving text-based clinical documentation corresponding to a patient treated at a healthcare facility;
converting the text-based clinical documentation to create a machine compatible converted input having multiple features;
providing the converted input to a trained machine learning model that has been trained based on a training set of historical converted clinical documentation by the first entity;
receiving a prediction from the trained machine learning model, wherein the prediction corresponds to at least one of a predicted diagnostic related group (DRG) code or a set of predictions comprising a predicted principal diagnosis code for provision to a DRG calculator to determine the DRG code; and
assigning a priority score at least partially based on the prediction.
12. The device of claim 11 wherein converting is performed by a natural language processing machine.
13. The device of claim 11 wherein the training set includes patient demographics from a patient information database.
14. The device of claim 11 wherein the machine learning model for predicting the DRG code is trained on the training set that includes an associated DRG code
corresponding to each treated patient in the historical converted clinical documentation.
15. The device of claim 11 wherein the machine learning model for predicting the set of predictions is trained on the training set that includes an associated diagnosis or procedure code corresponding to each treated patient in the historical converted clinical documentation.
16. The device of claim 15 wherein the training set includes multiple secondary' diagnosis codes and procedure codes for one or more treated patients in the historical converted clinical documentation.
17. A device compri sing :
a processor; and
a memory device coupled to the processor and having a program stored thereon for execution by the processor to perform operation to perform a method, the operations comprising:
receiving text-based clinical documentation corresponding to a patient treated at a healthcare facility;
converting the text-based clinical documentation to create a machine compatible converted input having multiple features;
providing the converted input to a trained machine learning model that has been trained based on a training set of historical converted clinical documentation by the first entity; receiving a prediction from the trained machine learning model, wherein the prediction corresponds to at least one of a predicted diagnostic related group (DRG) code or a set of predictions comprising a predicted principal diagnosis code for provision to a DRG calculator to determine the DRG code; and
assigning a priority score at least partially based on the prediction.
18. The device of claim 17 wherein converting is performed by a natural language processing machine and wherein the training set includes patient demographics from a patient information database.
19. The device of claim 17 wherein the prediction is assigned with a priority weight and the assigned priority score is calculated based on the priority weight.
20. The device of claim 17 wherein the machine learning model for predicting the set of predictions is trained on the training set that includes an associated diagnosis or procedure code corresponding to each treated patient in the historical converted clinical documentation and wherein the training set includes multiple secondary diagnosis codes and procedure codes for one or more treated patients in the historical converted clinical documentation.
</claims>
</document>
