<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/12,A61F11/06,H04R29/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
3M INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY (MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
JOHANSSON, MAGNUS S.K.
WATSON, BENJAMIN W.
SALEEM, Mohammed
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66676240
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HEARING PROTECTION EQUIPMENT AND SYSTEM WITH TRAINING CONFIGURATION
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to a system comprising a hearing protection device (13) configured to be worn by a user (10); one or more audio output devices (26) configured to generate one or more audio signals, a computing device (60) comprising a memory and one or more computer processors, wherein the memory comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more computer processors cause the one or more computer processor to: - select a training configuration (25) that defines a set of audio events (74A) that correspond to a set of user reactions (74B), - send a set of control signals to the one or more audio output device (26) that cause the one or more audio output devices (26) to simulate the set of audio events (74A), - receive reaction data (74C) that indicates whether the user (10) provided the set of user reactions (74B) to the set of audio events (74A); and - perform at least one operation based at least in part on whether the user (10) provided the set of user reactions (74B) to the set of audio events (74A) while wearing the hearing protection device (13).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising:
- a hearing protection device 13 configured to be worn by a user 10,
- one or more audio output devices 26 configured to generate one or more audio signals,
- a computing device 60 comprising a memory and one or more computer processors, wherein the memory comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more computer processors cause the one or more computer processor to:
- select a training configuration 25 that defines a set of audio events 74A that correspond to a set of user reactions 74B,
- send a set of control signals to the one or more audio output device 26 that cause the one or more audio output devices 26 to simulate the set of audio events 74 A,
- receive reaction data 74C that indicates whether the user provided the set of user reactions 74B to the set of audio events 74C; and
- perform at least one operation based at least in part on whether the user 10 provided the set of user reactions 74B to the set of audio events 74A while wearing the hearing protection device 13.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the memory of the computing device 60 comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more computer processors cause the one or more computer processor to:
- send a set of control signals to the one or more audio output device 26 that cause the one or more audio output devices 26 to simulate the set of audio events 74 A,
- wherein the control signals are configured to cause the audio output device 26 to generate at least one audio output signal that provides a threedimensional acoustic experience to a user 10.
3. The system according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the memory of the computing device 60 comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more computer processors cause the one or more computer processor to:
- select a training configuration 25 that defines a set of audio events 74A that correspond to a set of user reactions 74B,
- send a set of control signals to the one or more audio output device 26 that cause the one or more audio output devices 26 to simulate the set of audio events 74A at one or more particular locations in a three-dimensional space around the user 10 or in the hearing protection device 13 to simulate a the three-dimensional acoustic experience to the user 10,
- receive reaction data 74C that indicates whether the user 10 provided the set of user reactions 74B to the set of audio events 74A at the one or more particular locations; and
- perform at least one operation based at least in part on whether the user 10 provided the set of user reactions 74B to the set of audio events 74A at the one or more particular locations while wearing the hearing protection device 13.
4. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the memory of the computing device 60 comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more computer processors cause the one or more computer processor to:
- select a training configuration 25 that defines a set of audio events 74A that correspond to a set of user reactions 74B
- send a set of control signals to the one or more audio output device 26 that cause the one or more audio output devices 26 to simulate the set of audio events 74 A,
- wherein the a set of audio events 74A simulate real-life three-dimensional acoustic experience that may occur during the day of a user 10.
5. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the memory of the computing device 60 comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more computer processors causes the one or more computer processors to: - reference that set of audio events 74A to a set of user reactions 74B identifying the according location in the three-dimensional space around the user 10 where the acoustic experience comes from and/or
- reference that set of audio events 74A to a set of user reactions 74B identifying the kind of acoustic experience.
6. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the memory of the computing device 60 comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more computer processors causes the one or more computer processors to:
- reference that set of audio events 74A to a set of defined time frames for the time passing between sending out the set of control signals to the one or more audio output device 26 that causes the one or more audio output device 26 to simulate the set of audio events 74A and receiving reaction data 74C that indicates whether the user 10 provided the set of user reactions 74B.
7. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one operation based at least in part on whether the user 10 provided the set of user reactions 74B to the set of audio events 74A while wearing the hearing protection device 13 is selected from one or more of the following operations:
- providing a predefined feedback to the user,
- providing a selection of an appropriate next training configuration,
- providing a suggestion of an appropriate hearing protection device,
- creating a profile of a user with a number of reaction data,
- providing information packages for a management of the user,
- providing a comparison of reaction data of one user with reaction data of another user,
- providing a comparison of reaction data of one user with the profile of this user.
8. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the hearing
protection device 13 may be any kind of known hearing protection device worn in or over at least one ear while exposed to hazardous noise to help prevent noiseinduced hearing loss.
9. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the hearing
protection device 13 is communicatively coupled to the computing device.
10. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the hearing
protection device 13 may be equipped with communication devices such as for example a head set.
11. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the audio output device 26 is integrated in the hearing protection equipment.
12. The system according to any of the claims 1 to 10, wherein the audio output device 26 is positioned in a training space.
13. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the system also comprises a reaction recognition device, which is communicatively coupled to the computing device 60 and which is providing input signals for the received reaction data 74C.
14. The system according to any of the preceding claim, wherein the reaction
recognition device is a separate device or is integrated into components of the system such as for example the hearing protection device.
15. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the reaction
recognition device may be configured such that it can be hold in a user's hand or that it can be fixed to a user's equipment or body.
The system according to any of the preceding claim, wherein the reaction recognition device, comprises a camera or an acceleration sensor. AMENDED CLAIMS
received by the International Bureau on 16.10.2020
CLAIMS
1. A system comprising:
a hearing protection device (13) configured to be worn by a user (10);
one or more audio output devices (26) configured to generate one or more audio signals
a computing device (60) comprising a memory and one or more computer processors, wherein the memory comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more computer processors cause the one or more computer processor to:
select a training configuration (25) that defines a set of audio events (74A) that correspond to a set of user reactions (74B);
send a set of control signals to the one or more audio output device (26) that cause the one or more audio output devices (26) to simulate the set of audio events (74A); receive reaction data (74C) that indicates whether the user provided the set of user reactions (74B) to the set of audio events (74C); and,
perform at least one operation based at least in part on whether the user (10) provided the set of user reactions (74B) to the set of audio events (74A) while wearing the hearing protection device (13).
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the memory of the computing device (60)
comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more computer processors cause the one or more computer processor to:
send a set of control signals to the one or more audio output device (26) that cause the one or more audio output devices (26) to simulate the set of audio events (74A); and,
wherein the control signals are configured to cause the audio output device (26) to generate at least one audio output signal that provides a three-dimensional acoustic experience to a user (10). 3. The system according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the memory of the computing device (60) comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more computer processors cause the one or more computer processor to:
select a training configuration (25) that defines a set of audio events (74A) that correspond to a set of user reactions (74B);
send a set of control signals to the one or more audio output device (26) that cause the one or more audio output devices (26) to simulate the set of audio events (74A) at one or more particular locations in a three-dimensional space around the user (10) or in the hearing protection device (13) to simulate a the three-dimensional acoustic experience to the user (10);
receive reaction data (74C) that indicates whether the user (10) provided the set of user reactions (74B) to the set of audio events (74A) at the one or more particular locations; and,
perform at least one operation based at least in part on whether the user (10) provided the set of user reactions (74B) to the set of audio events (74A) at the one or more particular locations while wearing the hearing protection device (13).
4. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the memory of the
computing device (60) comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more computer processors cause the one or more computer processor to:
select a training configuration (25) that defines a set of audio events (74A) that correspond to a set of user reactions (74B); and,
send a set of control signals to the one or more audio output device (26) that cause the one or more audio output devices (26) to simulate the set of audio events (74A); wherein the a set of audio events (74A) simulate real-life three-dimensional acoustic experience that may occur during the day of a user (10).
5. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the memory of the
computing device (60) comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more computer processors causes the one or more computer processors to: reference that set of audio events (74A) to a set of user reactions (74B) identifying the according location in the three-dimensional space around the user (10) where the acoustic experience comes from; or,
reference that set of audio events (74A) to a set of user reactions (74B) identifying the kind of acoustic experience.
6. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the memory of the
computing device (60) comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more computer processors causes the one or more computer processors to:
reference that set of audio events (74A) to a set of defined time frames for the time passing between sending out the set of control signals to the one or more audio output device (26) that causes the one or more audio output device (26) to simulate the set of audio events (74A) and receiving reaction data (74C) that indicates whether the user (10) provided the set of user reactions (74B).
7. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one operation based at least in part on whether the user (10) provided the set of user reactions (74B) to the set of audio events (74A) while wearing the hearing protection device (13) is selected from one or more of the following operations:
providing a predefined feedback to the user;
providing a selection of an appropriate next training configuration providing a suggestion of an appropriate hearing protection device; creating a profile of a user with a number of reaction data;
providing information packages for a management of the user;
providing a comparison of reaction data of one user with reaction data of another user; and,
providing a comparison of reaction data of one user with the profile of this user.
8. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the hearing protection device (13) may be any kind of known hearing protection device worn in or over at least one ear while exposed to hazardous noise to help prevent noiseinduced hearing loss.
9. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the hearing protection device (13) is communicatively coupled to the computing device.
10. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the hearing protection device (13) may be equipped with communication devices such as for example a head set.
11. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the audio output device (26) is integrated in the hearing protection equipment.
12. The system according to any of the claims 1 to 10, wherein the audio output device (26) is positioned in a training space.
13. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the system also comprises a reaction recognition device, which is communicatively coupled to the computing device (60) and which is providing input signals for the received reaction data (74C).
14. The system according to any of the preceding claim, wherein the reaction recognition device is a separate device or is integrated into components of the system such as for example the hearing protection device.
15. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the reaction recognition device may be configured such that it can be hold in a user's hand or that it can be fixed to a user's equipment or body.
16. The system according to any of the preceding claim, wherein the reaction recognition device, comprises a camera or an acceleration sensor.
</claims>
</document>
