<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N37/00,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRATUSCENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
KHOMAMI ABADI, MOJTABA
MASILAMANI, ASHOK
GAHROOSI, AMIR
MARIC, NEVEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72140355
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR LEARNING ACROSS MULTIPLE CHEMICAL SENSING UNITS USING A MUTUAL LATENT REPRESENTATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for training models across multiple sensing units in a chemical sensing system are described. The chemical sensing system comprises at least one computer processor and at least one computer readable medium including instructions that, when executed by the at least one computer processor, cause the chemical sensing system to perform a training process. The training process comprises accessing a training dataset including first values representing first signals output from a first chemical sensing unit of multiple chemical sensing units, and second values representing second signals output from a second chemical sensing unit of the multiple chemical sensing units, and training a set of models to relate the first values and the second values to a mutual latent representation using the training dataset.
</abstract>

<claims>
CLAIMS
1. A chemical sensing system comprising:
at least one computer processor; and
at least one computer readable medium including instructions that, when executed by the at least one computer processor, cause the chemical sensing system to perform a training process, the training process comprising:
accessing a training dataset including first values representing first signals output from a first chemical sensing unit of multiple chemical sensing units, and second values representing second signals output from a second chemical sensing unit of the multiple chemical sensing units; and
training a set of models to relate the first values and the second values to a mutual latent representation using the training dataset.
2. The chemical sensing system of claim 1, wherein training the set of models includes: training one or more first models of the set of models to relate the first values representing the first signals to a first feature representation, and to relate the second values representing the second signals to a second feature representation.
3. The chemical sensing system of claim 2, wherein training the set of models includes: training one or more second models of the set of models to relate the first feature representation to a first latent representation, and to relate the second feature representation to a second latent representation.
4. The chemical sensing system of claim 3, wherein training the set of models includes: training one or more third models of the set of models to relate the first latent representation to the mutual latent representation, and to relate the second latent
representation to the mutual latent representation.
5. The chemical sensing system of claim 4, wherein training the set of models includes: training a fourth model of the set of models to generate inferences based on the mutual latent representation.
6. The chemical sensing system of claim 2, wherein:
training the one or more first models to relate the first values representing the first signals to the first feature representation comprises training a first model of the one or more first models to determine a first mapping between the first values representing the first signals and the first feature representation; and
training the one or more second models to relate the second values
representing the second signals to the second feature representation comprises training a second model of the one or more first models to determine a second mapping between the second values representing the second signals and the second feature representation.
7. The chemical sensing system of claim 6, wherein:
the first model of the one or more first models and the second model of the one or more first models are a same model; and
the first mapping and the second mapping are a same mapping.
8. The chemical sensing system of claim 3, wherein:
training the one or more second models to relate the first feature representation to the first latent representation comprises training a first model of the one or more second models to determine a first mapping between the first feature representation and the first latent representation; and
training the one or more second models to relate the second feature representation to the second latent representation comprises training a second model of the one or more second models to determine a second mapping between the second feature representation and the second latent representation.
9. The chemical sensing system of claim 8, wherein:
the first model of the one or more second models and the second model of the one or more second models are a same model; and
the first mapping and the second mapping are a same mapping.
10. The chemical sensing system of claim 4, wherein:
training the one or more third models to relate the first latent representation to the mutual latent representation comprises training a first model of the one or more third models to determine a first mapping between the first latent representation and the mutual latent representation; and
training the one or more third models to relate the second latent representation to the mutual latent representation comprises training a second model of the one or more third models to determine a second mapping between the second latent representation and the mutual latent representation.
11. The chemical sensing system of claim 10, wherein:
the first model of the one or more third models and the second model of the one or more third models are a same model; and
the first mapping and the second mapping are a same mapping.
12. The chemical sensing system of any of claims 6, 8, or 10, wherein the training process further comprises:
receiving, after training the set of models, a second training dataset including third values representing third signals output from a third chemical sensing unit; and
training a second set of models using the second training dataset and the trained set of models.
13. The chemical sensing system of claim 12, wherein training the second set of models using the second training dataset and the trained set of models comprises:
training a fifth model to relate the third values representing the third signals to a third feature representation;
training a sixth model to relate the third feature representation to a third latent representation; and
training a seventh model to relate the third latent representation to the mutual latent representation.
14. The chemical sensing system of 13, wherein training the sixth model to relate the third feature representation to the third latent representation comprises:
determining a mapping between the third feature representation and the third latent representation using the first mapping, the second mapping, or a combination thereof.
15. The chemical sensing system of 13, wherein training the seventh model to relate the third latent representation to the mutual latent representation comprises:
determining a mapping between the third latent representation and the mutual latent representation using the first mapping, the second mapping, or a combination thereof.
16. The chemical sensing system of claim 2, wherein:
training the one or more first models to relate the first values representing the first signals to the first feature representation comprises determining a sequential relationship between values of the first values; and
training the one or more first models to relate the second values representing the second signals to the second feature representation comprises training the one or more first models using the determined sequential relationship between values of the first values.
17. The chemical sensing system of claim 3, wherein:
training the one or more second models to relate the first feature representation to the first latent representation comprises determining a sequential relationship between values in the first feature representation; and
training the one or more second models to relate the second feature
representation to the second latent representation comprises training the one or more second models using the determined sequential relationship between values in the first feature representation.
18. The chemical sensing system of claim 4, wherein:
training the one or more third models to relate the first latent representation to the mutual latent representation comprises determining a sequential relationship between values in the first latent representation; and training the one or more third models to relate the second latent representation to the mutual latent representation comprises training the one or more third models using the determined sequential relationship between values in the first latent representation.
19. The chemical sensing system of claim 5, wherein the fourth model is configured to generate inferences based on a sequential relationship determined between values in the mutual latent representation.
20. The chemical sensing system of claim 2, wherein training the one or more first models comprises using a manifold learning technique, a neighborhood embedding technique, an unsupervised learning technique, or any combination thereof.
21. The chemical sensing system of claim 3, wherein the one or more second models comprise neural network models.
22. The chemical sensing system of claim 21, wherein the neural network models comprise feed forward neural networks, recurrent neural networks, convolutional neural networks, or any combination thereof.
23. The chemical sensing system of claim 4, wherein the one or more third models comprise neural network models.
24. The chemical sensing system of claim 23, wherein the neural network models comprise feed forward neural networks, recurrent neural networks, convolutional neural networks, or any combination thereof.
25. The chemical sensing system of claim 5, wherein the fourth model comprises a feed forward neural network, a support vector machine, a recurrent neural network, or long-shortterm-memory neural network.
26. A method of training a set of models associated with a first chemical sensing unit, using information associated with a plurality of chemical sensing units not including the first chemical sensing unit, the method comprising:
accessing the information associated with the plurality of chemical sensing units, wherein the information relates a plurality of signals output from the plurality of chemical sensing units to a mutual latent representation;
accessing a training dataset including values representing signals output from the first chemical sensing unit; and
training the set of models associated with the first chemical sensing unit, using the training dataset and the information associated with the plurality of chemical sensing units, wherein training the set of models comprises:
training a first model of the set of models to relate the values representing the signals output from the first chemical sensing unit to a feature representation;
training a second model of the set of models to relate the feature representation to a latent representation; and
training a third model to relate the latent representation to the mutual latent representation.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the information associated with the plurality of chemical sensing units comprises:
at least one mapping between a plurality of latent representations associated with the plurality of chemical sensing units, and the mutual latent representation.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein training the third model to relate the latent representation to the mutual latent representation comprises:
determining a mapping between the latent representation and the mutual latent representation, using the at least one mapping between the plurality of latent representations and the mutual latent representation.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the determined mapping between the latent representation and the mutual latent representation comprises a combination of multiple mappings of the at least one mapping between the plurality of latent representations and the mutual latent representation.
30. The method of claim 27, wherein the information associated with the plurality of chemical sensing units comprises:
at least one mapping between a plurality of feature representations associated with the plurality of chemical sensing units, and the plurality of latent representations associated with the plurality of chemical sensing units.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein training the second model to relate the feature representation to the latent representation comprises:
determining a mapping between the feature representation and the latent
representation, using the at least one mapping between the plurality of feature representations and the plurality of latent representations.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein determining the mapping between the feature representation and the second latent representation comprises combining multiple mappings of the at least one mapping between the plurality of feature representations and the plurality of latent representations.
33. The method of claim 26, wherein training the first model comprises using a manifold learning technique, a neighborhood embedding technique, an unsupervised learning technique, or any combination thereof.
34. The method of claim 26, wherein the second model comprises a neural network model.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein the neural network model comprises a feed forward neural network, a recurrent neural network, a convolutional neural network, or any combination thereof.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein the third model comprises a neural network model.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the neural network model comprises a feed forward neural network, a recurrent neural network, a convolutional neural network, or any combination thereof.
38. A system comprising:
at least one computer processor; and
at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing processorexecutable instructions that, when executed by the at least one computer processor, cause the at least one computer processor to:
access signals output from a chemical sensing unit having a plurality of sensors configured to sense at least one analyte in a sample; and
generate an inference regarding the at least one analyte in the sample using a set of models trained to relate the signals to mutual latent representation values in a mutual latent representation, wherein the mutual latent representation was generated based on signals output from a plurality of chemical sensing units.
39. The system of claim 38, wherein generating the inference regarding the at least one analyte in the sample comprises:
generating feature representation values by providing the signals as input to a first model of the set of models trained to relate the received signals to a feature representation.
40. The system of claim 39, wherein generating the inference regarding the at least one analyte in the sample comprises:
generating latent representation values by providing the feature representation values as input to a second model of the set of models trained to relate the feature representation to a latent representation.
41. The system of claim 40, wherein generating the inference regarding the at least one analyte in the sample comprises:
generating the mutual latent representation values by providing the latent
representation values as input to a third model trained to relate the latent representation to the mutual latent representation.
42. The system of claim 41, wherein generating the inference regarding the at least one analyte in the sample comprises:
generating the inference by providing the mutual latent representation values as input to a fourth model trained to generate inferences based on the mutual latent representation.
43. The system of claim 38, 39, 40, 41, or 42, wherein any two or more models of the set of models are combined into a single model.
44. The system of claim 38, wherein the signals are output from a plurality of chemical sensing units that output differing signals when exposed to a same analyte.
45. The system of claim 38, wherein the signals are stored in the at least one nontransitory computer-readable storage medium of the system.
46. The system of claim 38, wherein the at least one computer processor accesses the signals output from the chemical sensing unit by receiving the signals directly from the chemical sensing unit.
47. The system of claim 38, wherein the signals are stored in a second storage medium different from and external to the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium.
48. The system of claim 47, wherein accessing the signals comprises receiving the signals from the second storage medium.
49. The system of claim 47, wherein the chemical sensing unit includes the second storage medium.
50. The system of claim 38, wherein information representing, at least in part, the set of models is stored in the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of the system.
51. The system of claim 38, wherein information representing, at least in part, the set of models is stored in a second storage medium different from and external to the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium.
52. The system of claim 51, wherein the information representing, at least in part, the set of models is received from the second storage medium.
53. The system of claim 51, wherein the chemical sensing unit includes the second storage medium.
54. The system of claim 38, wherein the at least one computer processor comprises a plurality of computer processors.
55. A chemical sensing system comprising:
a plurality of chemical sensing units, each chemical sensing unit of the plurality of chemical sensing units having a plurality of sensors arranged on at least one substrate, wherein a first sensor and a second sensor of the plurality of sensors have different sensitivities to sense at least one analyte in a sample, each of the plurality of sensors being configured to output a signal in response to sensing the at least one analyte; and
at least one computer processor programmed to:
receive the signals output from the plurality of sensors for the plurality of chemical sensing units; and
determine a concentration of the at least one analyte in the sample by:
providing the received signals as input to a first model trained to relate the signals to a feature representation to generate feature representation values; providing the feature representation values as input to a second model trained to relate the feature representation to a latent representation to generate latent representation values;
providing the latent representation values as input to a third model trained to relate the latent representation to a mutual latent representation to generate mutual latent representation values; and
providing the mutual latent representation values as input to a fourth model trained to related the mutual latent representation to analyte concentrations to generate the concentration of the at least one analyte in the sample.
</claims>
</document>
