<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12N15/11,C12N9/22,C12Q1/6816,C12Q1/6825,G01N33/52
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIT (MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY)
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
THE BROAD INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG FENG
GOOTENBERG, JONATHAN
ABUDAYYEH, OMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71787028
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTIPLE DIAGNOSTICS BASED ON CRIPSR EFFECTOR SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for rapid diagnostics related to the use of CRISPR effector systems and optimized guide sequences, including multiplex lateral flow diagnostic devices and methods of use, are provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A lateral flow device comprising a substrate comprising a first end and a second end,
a. the first end comprising a sample loading portion, a first region comprising a detectable ligand, two or more CRISPR effector systems, two or more detection constructs, and one or more first capture regions, each comprising a first binding agent; and
b. the substrate comprising two or more second capture regions between the first region of the first end and the second end, each second capture region comprising a different binding agent;
wherein each of the two or more CRISPR effector systems comprises a CRISPR effector protein or polynucleotide encoding a CRISPR effector protein and one or more guide sequences, each guide sequence configured to bind one or more target molecules.
2. The lateral flow device of claim 1, wherein the first end comprises two detection constructs, wherein each of the two detection constructs comprises an RNA or DNA oligonucleotide, comprising a first molecule on a first end and a second molecule on a second end.
3. The lateral flow device of claim 2, wherein the first molecule on the first end of the first detection construct is FAM and the second molecule on the second end of the first detection construct is biotin or vice versa; and the first molecule on the first end of the second detection construct is FAM and the second molecule on the second end of the second detection construct is Digoxigenin (DIG) or vice versa.
4. The lateral flow device of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the CRISPR effector protein is an RNA-targeting effector protein, DNA-targeting effector, or both.
5. The lateral flow device of claim 4, wherein the RNA-targeting effector protein is a Class 2 Type VI Cas protein and the DNA-targeting effector protein is Class 2, Type V Cas protein.
6. The lateral flow device of claim 4, wherein the RNA-targeting effector protein is Casl3a, Casl3b, Casl3c, or Casl3d.
7. The lateral flow device of claim 1, wherein the first end comprises three detection constructs, wherein each of the three detection constructs comprises an RNA or DNA oligonucleotide, comprising a first molecule on a first end and a second molecule on a second end.
8. The lateral flow device of claim 7, wherein the first and second molecules on the detection constructs comprise Tye 665 and Alexa 488; Tye 665 and FAM; and Tye 665 and Digoxigenin (DIG).
9. The lateral flow device of claim 1, wherein a polynucleotide encoding a CRISPR effector protein and the one or more guide RNAs are provided as a multiplexing polynucleotide, the multiplexing polynucleotide configured to comprise two or more guide sequences.
10. A method for detecting a target nucleic acid in a sample, comprising contacting a sample with the first end of the lateral flow device of claim 1 comprising the sample loading portion, wherein the sample flows from the sample loading portion of the substrate towards the first and second capture regions and generates a detectable signal.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the lateral flow device is capable of detecting two different target nucleic acid sequences.
12. The method of claim 10 or 11, wherein when the target nucleic acid sequences are absent from the sample, a fluorescent signal is generated at each capture region.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the detectable signal appears at the first and second capture regions.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the lateral flow device is capable of detecting three different target nucleic acid sequences.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein when the target nucleic acid sequences are absent from the sample, a fluorescent signal is generated at each capture region.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the fluorescent signal appears at the first, second, and third capture regions.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein when the sample contains one or more target nucleic acid sequences, a fluorescent signal is absent at the capture region for the corresponding target nucleic acid sequence.
18. A nucleic acid detection system comprising two or more CRISPR systems, each CRISPR system comprising an effector protein and a guide RNA designed to bind to a corresponding target molecule; a set of detection constructs, each detection construct comprising a cutting motif sequence that is preferentially cut by one of the activated CRISPR effector proteins; and reagents for helicase dependent nucleic acid amplification (HD A).
19. A method for quantifying target nucleic acids in samples comprising distributing a sample or set of samples into one or more individual discrete volumes comprising two or more CRISPR systems according to claim 18,
amplifying one or more target molecules in the sample or set of samples by HD A; incubating the sample or set of samples under conditions sufficient to allow binding
of the guide RNAs to one or more target molecules;
activating the CRISPR effector protein via binding of the guide RNAs to the one or more target molecules, wherein activating the CRISPR effector protein results in modification of the detection construct such that a detectable positive signal is generated;
detecting the one or more detectable positive signal, wherein detection of the one or more detectable positive signal indicates a presence of one or more target molecules in the sample; and
comparing the intensity of the one or more signals to a control to quantify the nucleic acid in the sample;
wherein the steps of amplifying, incubating, activating, and detecting are all performed in the same individual discrete volume.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the detectable positive signal is a loss of fluorescent signal.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein the detectable positive signal is detected on a lateral flow device.
22. The method of claim 19, wherein the HDA reagents comprise a helicase super mutant, selected from WP 003870487.1 Thermoanaerobacter ethanolicus comprising mutations D403A/D404, WP_049660019.1 Bacillus sp. FJAT-27231 comprising mutations
D407A/D408A, WP_034654680.1 Bacillus megaterium comprising mutations D415A/D416A, WP 095390358.1, Bacillus simplex comprising mutations D407A/D408A, and WP_055343022.1 Paeniclostridium sordellii comprising mutations D402A/D403A.
23. A method for designing guide RNAs for use in the detection systems of the preceding claims, the method comprising: a. designing putative guide RNAs tiled across a target molecule of interest;
b. incubating putative guide RNAs with a Cas effector protein and the target molecule and measuring cleavage activity of the each putative guide RNA
c. creating a training model based on the cleavage activity results of incubating the putative guide RNAs with the Cas effector protein and the target molecule;
d. predicting highly active guide RNAs for the target molecule, wherein the predicting comprises optimizing the nucleotide at each base position in the guide RNA based on the training model; and
e. validating the predicted highly active guide RNAs by incubating the guide RNAs with the Cas effector protein and the target molecule.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the Cas effector protein is a Casl2 or Cas 13 protein.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the Cas protein is a Casl3a or Casl3b protein.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the Cas protein is LwaCasl3a or CcaCasl3b.
27. The method of claim 23, wherein the training model comprises one or more input features selected from guide sequence, flanking target sequence, normalized positions of the guide in the target and guide GC content.
28. The method of claim 26, wherein the guide sequence and/or flanking sequence input comprises one hit encoding mono-nucleotide and/or dinucleotide based identities across a guide length and flanking sequence in the target.
29. The method of claim 27, wherein the training model comprises applying logistic regression model on the activity of the guides across the one or more input features.
30. The method of claim 23, wherein the predicting highly active guides for the target molecule comprises selecting guides with an increase in activity of a guide relative to the median activity, or selecting guides with highest guide activity.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein the increase in activity is measured by an increase in fluorescence.
32. The method of claim 29, wherein the guides are selected with a 1.5, 2, 2.5 or 3- fold activity relative to median, or are in the top quartile or quintile for each target tested.
</claims>
</document>
