<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B43/00,G05B13/02,G05B17/02,G06N20/00,G06N3/02,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SCHLUMBERGER CA
SCHLUMBERGER TECHNOLOGY
SERVICES PETROLIERS SCHLUMBERGER
GEOQUEST SYSTEMS BV
</assignee>

<inventors>
NGUYEN NAM
ROCHA CARLOS PENEDO
YUAN PENGYU
CHONG JONATHAN WUN SHIUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73459155
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MANAGING WELLSITE EVENT DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
A method for detecting events includes receiving measurements from a plurality of sensors, and executing a machine learning model trained to identify events based on the measurements. The machine learning model identifies the events based on the measurements. The method also includes determining based on the measurements and the identified events that training applied to the machine learning model is to be modified. A modified training data set is generated based on the measurements and an initial training data set used to train the machine learning model to identify the events. The modified training data set is applied to retrain the machine learning model.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. An electrical submersible pump system, comprising:
an electrical submersible pump (ESP);
a plurality of sensors coupled to the ESP, and configured to measure parameters of operation of the ESP;
an event detection system coupled to the sensors, and comprising:
processing circuitry configured to execute a machine learning model trained to identify events related to the ESP based on measurements received from the sensors;
a monitoring system communicatively coupled to the event detection system, and configured to:
receive the measurements from the event detection system; receive the events identified by the event detection system based on the measurements;
determine, based on the received measurements and events, that the training applied to the machine learning model is to be modified; generate a modified training data set based on an initial training data set used to train the machine learning model to identify the events, and the received measurements; and
apply the modified training data set to retrain the machine learning model.
2. The ESP system of claim 1 , wherein: the event detection system is a first event detection system; and
the initial training data set is based on measurements provided by a plurality of event detection systems other than the first event detection system.
3. The ESP system of claim 1 , wherein the monitoring system is configured to: determine that the training applied to the machine learning model is to be modified based on:
a cumulative number of event detection errors by the event detection system exceeding a threshold;
wherein the cumulative number of event detection errors comprises a number of events identified using the measurements that the event detection system failed to identify, and a number of the events identified by the event detection system being false event detections.
4. The ESP system of claim 1 , wherein the monitoring system is configured to:
select measurements received from the event detection system to add to the modified training data set; and
add the measurements selected to a portion of the initial training data set to generate the modified training data set.
5. The ESP system of claim 1 , wherein:
the machine learning model is a first machine learning model; and the monitoring system is configured to apply the modified training data to train a second machine learning model.
6. The ESP system of claim 5, wherein the monitoring system is configured to transfer weight values generated by training the second machine learning model to the event detection system.
7. The ESP system of claim 6, wherein the event detection system is configured to download the weight values into the first machine learning model for use in event detection.
8. The ESP system of claim 1 , further comprising ESP control circuitry configured to change a speed of an electric motor of the ESP based on the events identified by the event detection system.
9. An event identification system, comprising:
an event detection system, comprising:
a plurality of sensors;
processing circuitry coupled to the sensors, and configured to execute a machine learning model trained to identify events based on measurements received from the sensors;
a monitoring system coupled to the event detection system, and configured to: receive the measurements from the event detection system; receive the events identified by the event detection system based on the measurements;
determine, based on the received measurements and events, that the training applied to the machine learning model is to be modified; generate a modified training data set based on the received measurements and an initial training data set used to train the machine learning model to identify the events; and
apply the modified training data set to retrain the machine learning model.
10. The event identification system of claim 9, wherein:
the event detection system is a first event detection system; and
the initial training data set is based on measurements provided by a plurality of event detection systems other than the first event detection system.
11. The event identification system of claim 9, wherein the monitoring system is configured to: determine that the training applied to the machine learning model is to be modified based on:
a cumulative number of event detection errors by the event detection system exceeding a threshold;
wherein the cumulative number of event detection errors comprises a number of events identified using the measurements that the event detection system failed to identify, and a number of the events identified by the event detection system being false event detections. 12. The event identification system of claim 9, wherein the monitoring system is configured to:
select measurements received from the event detection system to add to the modified training data set; and
add the measurements selected to a portion of the initial training data set to generate the modified training data set.
13. The event identification system of claim 9, wherein:
the machine learning model is a first machine learning model; and
the monitoring system is configured to apply the modified training data to train a second machine learning model.
14. The event identification system of claim 13, wherein the monitoring system is configured to transfer weight values generated by training the second machine learning model to the event detection system.
15. The event identification system of claim 14, wherein the event detection system is configured to download the weight values into the first machine learning model for use in event detection.
16. A method for detecting events, comprising:
receiving measurements from a plurality of sensors; executing a machine learning model trained to identify events based on the measurements;
identifying, by the machine learning model, the events based on the measurements;
determining based on the measurements and the identified events that training applied to the machine learning model is to be modified;
generating a modified training data set based on the measurements and an initial training data set used to train the machine learning model to identify the events; and
applying the modified training data set to retrain the machine learning model.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the machine learning model is a first machine learning model, and the method further comprising generating the initial training data set based on measurements provided by a plurality of machine learning models other than the first machine learning model.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising determining that the training applied to the machine learning model is to be modified based on:
a cumulative number of event detection errors by the machine learning model exceeding a threshold;
wherein the cumulative number of event detection errors comprises a number of events identified using the measurements that the machine learning model failed to identify, and a number of the events identified by the machine learning model being false event detections.
19. The method of claim 16, further comprising: selecting at one or more of the measurements to add to the modified training data set; and adding the one or more of the measurements to a portion of the initial training data set to generate the modified training data set.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the machine learning model is a first machine learning model; and the method further comprises: applying the modified training data to train a second machine learning model; and transferring weight values generated by training the second machine learning model to the first machine learning model for use in event detection.
21. A method for monitoring an event detection system, comprising:
receiving, from the event detection system:
sensor measurements analyzed by a machine learning model of the event detection system to detect events; and
events identified by the event detection system based on the sensor measurements;
determining based on the measurements and the identified events that training applied to the machine learning model is to be modified; generating a modified training data set based on the measurements and an initial training data set used to train the machine learning model to identify the events; and
transferring weight values derived from the modified training data set to the event detection system for use in the machine learning model.
22. The method of claim 21 , wherein the machine learning model is a first machine learning model, and the method further comprising generating the initial training data set based on measurements provided by a plurality of machine learning models other than the first machine learning model.
23. The method of claim 21 , further comprising determining that the training applied to the machine learning model is to be modified based on:
a cumulative number of event detection errors by the machine learning model exceeding a threshold;
wherein the cumulative number of event detection errors comprises a number of events identified using the measurements that the machine learning model failed to identify, and a number of the events identified by the machine learning model being false event detections.
24. The method of claim 21 , further comprising:
selecting a portion of the measurements to add to the modified training data set; and adding the measurements selected to a portion of the initial training data set to generate the modified training data set.
25. The method of claim 21 , wherein the machine learning model is a first machine learning model; and the method further comprises generating the weight values by applying the modified training data set to train a second machine learning model.
</claims>
</document>
