<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01Q21/24,H01Q5/25
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KINDT, RICK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73228386
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WIDEBAND DUAL-POLARIZED ELECTRICALLY COUPLED AND CONNECTED RADIATORS ON A TRIANGULAR LATTICE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for implementing wideband radiators that conform to regular equilateral triangular lattices with little to no performance compromise for typical offset pairs of dual-polarized element arrangements. This general radiator family/group/configuration can be referred to as the Slant Tri-V (STV) element based on the basic characteristic set of this radiator group and relative differences to conventional array elements normally seen on rectangular or triangular lattice arrangements. The STV array element has wideband, dual-polarized operation and conforms to the most efficiently sampled array lattice for the lowest array element count possible for phased arrays.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is: 1. A dual-polarized antenna array, comprising: a first element of a first polarization; a first element of a second polarization coupled to the first element of the first polarization; a first mode partition coupled to the first element of the first polarization; a second element of the second polarization coupled to the first mode partition; a second element of the first polarization coupled to the second element of the second polarization; and a second mode partition coupled to the second element of the first polarization and the first element of the second polarization.
2. The dual-polarized antenna array of claim 1, wherein the second polarization is orthogonal to the first polarization.
3. The dual-polarized antenna array of claim 1, wherein a horizontal spacing between the first
2
element of the first polarization and the first element of the second polarization is— times a square lattice spacing used for grating-lobe free scan operation.
4. The dual-polarized antenna array of claim 1, wherein a horizontal spacing between the first element of the first polarization and the first element of the second polarization is half-wavelength spacing at a highest frequency of operation.
5. The dual-polarized antenna array of claim 1, wherein a vertical spacing between the first element of the first polarization and the second element of the first polarization is half a wavelength at a highest frequency operation.
6. The dual-polarized antenna array of claim 1, wherein a vertical spacing between the first element of the second polarization and the second element of the second polarization is half a wavelength at a highest frequency operation.
7. The dual-polarized antenna array of claim 1, wherein the first mode partition is parallel with the second mode partition.
8. The dual-polarized antenna array of claim 1, wherein the dual -polarized antenna array comprises a plurality of perforations, and wherein a first perforation in the plurality of perforations is between the first mode partition and the second mode partition.
9. The antenna array of the claim 1, wherein the plurality of perforations comprise drill holes.
10. The antenna array of the claim 1, wherein the plurality of perforations comprise counterbores.
11. The antenna array of the claim 1, wherein the first mode partition is electrically coupled to the first element of the first polarization and to the second element of the second polarization, and wherein the second mode partition is electrically coupled to the second element of the first polarization and to the first element of the second polarization.
12. The antenna array of the claim 1, wherein the first mode partition is capacitively coupled to the first element of the first polarization and to the second element of the second polarization, and wherein the second mode partition is capacitively coupled to the second element of the first polarization and to the first element of the second polarization.
13. A dual-polarized antenna array, comprising: a first element of a first polarization; a first element of a second polarization coupled to the element of the first polarization; a mode partition bar coupled to the first element of the first polarization and to the first element of the second polarization; a second element of the second polarization coupled to the mode partition bar; and a second element of the first polarization coupled to the second element of the second polarization and to the mode partition bar.
14. The dual-polarized antenna array of claim 13, wherein the mode partition bar comprises a polarizing structure including a plurality of layers.
15. The dual -polarized antenna array of claim 14, wherein the polarizing structure comprises a plurality of gaps in between respective layers in the plurality of layers, wherein the plurality of gaps are configured to enable formation of magnetic fields between elements of the dual-polarized antenna array.
16. A dual-polarized antenna array, comprising: a first element of a first polarization; a first element of a second polarization coupled to the first element of the first polarization; a first mode partition coupled to the first element of the first polarization; a second element of the second polarization coupled to the first mode partition; a second element of the first polarization coupled to the second element of the second polarization; a second mode partition coupled to the second element of the first polarization and the first element of the second polarization, wherein a first perforation is formed between the first mode partition and the second mode partition, and wherein the first mode partition is parallel with the second mode partition; a third element of the first polarization coupled to the first mode partition and to the second element of the second polarization; and a third mode partition coupled to the third element of the first polarization.
17. The dual-polarized antenna array of claim 16, further comprising: a third element of the second polarization coupled to the third mode partition; a fourth element of the first polarization coupled to the third element of the second polarization; and a fourth mode partition coupled to the fourth element of the first polarization and to the second element of the second polarization.
18. The dual-polarized antenna array of claim 16, wherein a second perforation is formed between the third mode partition and the fourth mode partition.
19. The antenna array of the claim 16, wherein the first mode partition is electrically coupled to the first element of the first polarization and to the second element of the second polarization, and wherein the second mode partition is electrically coupled to the second element of the first polarization and to the first element of the second polarization.
20. The antenna array of the claim 16, wherein the first mode partition is capacitively coupled to the first element of the first polarization and to the second element of the second polarization, and wherein the second mode partition is capacitively coupled to the second element of the first polarization and to the first element of the second polarization.
</claims>
</document>
