<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J9/16,G05D1/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GECKO ROBOTICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOORE, JOSHUA
MILLER, IAN
JOSLIN, TODD
LOW, KEVIN
MACKENZIE, LOGAN
LOOSARARIAN, MARK
BRYNER, EDWARD
GU, YIZHU
CUTI, ALEXANDER
CHO, EDWIN
CHO, MARK
AUDA, MICHAEL
TROGU, Francesco
WESTENBERG, Samuel
CORDOVA, Ignacio
RODRIGUEZ, Domenic
PRIDGEN, William
BINGER, Michael
JOURDE, Dillon
DENNER, Katherine
WATT, Alex
MRKONICH, Jeffrey
GUISE, Benjamin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72428080
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INSPECTION ROBOT
</title>

<abstract>
An inspection robot incudes a robot body, at least two sensors, a drive module, a stability assist device and an actuator. The at least two sensors are positioned to interrogate an inspection surface and are communicatively coupled to the robot body. The drive module includes at least two wheels that engage the inspection surface. The drive module is coupled to the robot body. The stability assist device is coupled to at least one of the robot body or the drive module. The actuator is coupled to the stability assist device at a first end, and coupled to one of the drive module or the robot body at a second end. The actuator is structured to selectively move the stability assist device between a first position and a second position. The first position includes a stored position. The second position includes a deployed position.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising:
an inspection robot comprising at least two payloads;
at least two arms, wherein each arm is pivotally mounted to one of the at least two payloads;
at least two sleds, wherein each sled is mounted to one of the at least two arms;
a plurality of inspection sensors, each of the plurality of inspection sensors coupled to one of the at least two sleds such that each sensor is operationally couplable to an inspection surface, wherein the at least two sleds are horizontally distributed on the inspection surface at selected horizontal positions, and wherein each of the at least two arms is horizontally moveable relative to a corresponding payload; and
a biasing device structured to apply a downward force on at least one of the at least two sleds in a direction towards the inspection surface;
wherein the biasing device comprises both a passive component and an active component.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the passive component is a spring or a magnet.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the active component is a spring or an
electromagnet.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a controller comprising:
a sensor interaction circuit structured to interpret a force value representing an amount of the downward force applied by the biasing device;
a force control circuit structured to determine a force adjustment value in response to the force value and a target force value; and
a force provisioning circuit structured to provide the force adjustment value to an active component,
wherein the active component is responsive to the force adjustment value.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the force control circuit determines the force adjustment value such that the amount of the downward force applied by the biasing device is above a minimum threshold value.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the controller further comprises:
a user interaction circuit structured to interpret a force request value;
wherein the minimum threshold value is determined in response to the force request value.
7. The system of claim 4, wherein the controller further comprises:
an obstacle navigation circuit structured to interpret obstacle data from one or more obstacle sensors;
wherein the force control circuit is further structured to adjust the amount of the downward force applied by the biasing device via the force adjustment value in response to: the obstacle data indicating a presence of an obstacle in a path of the inspection robot along the inspection surface, or the obstacle data indicating an absence of the obstacle in the path of the inspection robot along the inspection surface
8. The system of claim 7, wherein adjusting the amount of downward force comprises lifting the payload.
9. A method for performing an inspection of an inspection surface with an inspection robot, the method comprising:
interpreting a force value representing an amount of downward force applied by a biasing device;
determining a force adjustment value in response to the force value;
providing the force adjustment value to an active component, wherein the active component is responsive to the force adjustment value; and
adjusting the active component in response to the determined force adjustment value.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the force adjustment value is further in response to determining that an excess fluid loss value exceeds a threshold fluid loss value.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the force adjustment value is further in response to determining a coupling quality value is below a coupling quality threshold value.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising:
identifying an obstacle; and
adjusting to traverse the obstacle.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein adjusting the active component comprises compensating for a temperature of the active component.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the force adjustment value assures that a corresponding force from the active component is above a minimum threshold value.
15. The method of claim 14 further comprising: interpreting a force request value;
wherein the minimum threshold value is based on the force request value.
16. The method of claim 9 further comprising:
interpreting an obstacle instance;
adjusting the amount of the downward force applied when the obstacle instance indicates a presence of an obstacle in a path of the inspection robot along the inspection surface.
17. An apparatus for performing an inspection on an inspection surface with an inspection robot, the apparatus comprising:
a sensor interaction circuit structured to interpret a force value representing an amount of a downward force applied by a biasing device on a sled of the inspection robot in a direction towards the inspection surface;
a force control circuit structured to determine a force adjustment value in response to the force value and a target force value;
a force provisioning circuit operative to provide the force adjustment value to an active component, wherein the active component is responsive to the force adjustment value.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the force control circuit determines the force adjustment value such that the amount of the downward force applied by the biasing device is above a minimum threshold value.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the apparatus further comprises:
a user interaction circuit structured to interpret a force request value;
wherein the minimum threshold value is based on the force request value.
20. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising:
an obstacle navigation circuit structured to interpret obstacle data from one or more obstacle sensors;
wherein the force control circuit is further structured to:
update the force adjustment value when the obstacle data indicates a presence of an obstacle in a path of the inspection robot along the inspection surface or when the obstacle data indicates the obstacle is no longer in the path of the inspection robot.
21. A system comprising:
an inspection robot comprising a payload;
at least one arm, wherein each arm is pivotally mounted to a payload;
at least two sleds, wherein each sled is mounted to the at least one arm; a plurality of inspection sensors, each of the inspection sensors coupled to one of the sleds such that each sensor is operationally couplable to an inspection surface, wherein the at least one arm is horizontally moveable relative to a corresponding payload;
a tether comprising :
an electrical power conduit operative to provide electrical power; and
a working fluid conduit operative to provide a working fluid.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the working fluid is a couplant and the working fluid conduit is structured to fluidly communicate with at least one sled to provide for couplant communication via the couplant between an inspection sensor mounted to the at least one sled and the inspection surface.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein the working fluid conduit has an inner diameter of about one eighth of an inch.
24. The system of claim 21, wherein the tether comprises a length greater than or equal to at least one length selected from a list consisting of: 4 feet, 6 feet, 10 feet, 15 feet, 24 feet, 30 feet, 34 feet, 100 feet, 150 feet, and 200 feet.
25. The system of claim 21, wherein the working fluid is at least one of:
a paint;
a cleaning solution; or
a repair solution.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the tether further comprises a couplant conduit operative to provide a couplant.
27. The system of claim 21 further comprising:
a base station,
wherein the tether couples the inspection robot to the base station.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein the base station comprises:
a controller; and
a lower power output electrically coupled to each of the electrical power conduit and the controller;
wherein the controller is structured to determine whether the inspection robot is connected to the tether in response to an electrical output of the lower power output.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the electrical output is at least 18 Volts DC.
30. The system of claim 28,
wherein the controller is further structured to determine whether an overcurrent condition exists on the tether based on an electrical output of the lower power output.
31. The system of claim 21 , the tether further comprising a communication conduit operative to provide a communication link, wherein the communication conduit comprises an optical fiber or a metal wire.
32. The system of claim 21, wherein a body of the tether comprises of at least one of:
a strain relief;
a heat resistant jacketing;
a wear resistant outer layer; or
electromagnetic shielding.
33. A method comprising:
performing an inspection of an inspection surface;
providing power to an inspection robot through a shared tether; and providing a working fluid to the inspection robot through the shared tether.
34. The method of claim 33, providing the working fluid between an inspection sensor and the inspection surface wherein the working fluid is a couplant.
35. The method of claim 33, further comprising painting the inspection surface, wherein providing the working fluid comprises providing a paint.
36. The method of claim 33, further comprising cleaning the inspection surface, wherein providing the working fluid comprises providing a cleaning solution.
37. The method of claim 33, further comprising repairing the inspection surface, wherein providing the working fluid comprises providing a repair solution.
38. The method of claim 33 further comprising: electrically communicating between the inspection robot and a base station via the shared tether.
39. The method of claim 38 further comprising:
providing a low power voltage to an electrical connection between the inspection robot and the base station;
monitoring the electrical connection and
verifying the electrical connection between the inspection robot and the base station; and
determining a connection status value in response to the verified electrical connection.
40. The method of claim 39, further comprising selectively engaging, in response to the connection status value, a high power voltage to the electrical connection.
41. The method of claim 33 further comprising:
determining a tether fault value; and
selectively engaging, in response to the tether fault value, a higher power output to the shared tether.
453. The system of claim 452, wherein the first drive module is rotationally movable relative to the robot body.
454. The system of claim 453, wherein the first drive piston comprises a translation limiter, and wherein the translation limiter enforces the maximum distance of the second position.
455. The system of claim 448, further comprising:
a power connector structured to transfer power between the robot body and the first drive module, wherein the power connector is positioned in an interior of the first drive piston; and a communications connector structured to transfer digital data between the robot body and the first drive module, wherein the communications connector is positioned in the interior of the first drive piston.
456. The system of claim 455, further comprising:
a second power connector structured to transfer power between the robot body and the second drive module, wherein the power connector is positioned in an interior of the second drive piston; and a second communications connector structured to transfer digital data between the robot body and the second drive module, wherein the communications connector is positioned in the interior of the second drive piston.
457. The system of claim 455, wherein first drive module comprises an encoder; and wherein the encoder is structured to transmit data to the robot body via the communications connector.
458. A method of updating an inspection robot configuration, comprising:
operating an inspection controller in communication with a first hardware component coupled to a hardware interface utilizing a first command set, wherein the first hardware component comprises a first response map;
de-coupling the first hardware component from the hardware interface;
42. The method of claim 41, wherein the tether fault value is in response to a fault condition, wherein the fault condition comprises at least one member selected from a list consisting of an overcurrent condition, a short circuit, an excess voltage drop condition, an excess resistance condition, or a sensor failure condition.
coupling a second hardware component to the hardware interface, wherein the second hardware component comprises a second response map; and
operating the inspection controller in communication with the second hardware component utilizing the first command set.
459. The method of claim 458, wherein the first response map comprises an analogto-digital (A/D) converter instruction set.
460. The method of claim 458, wherein the first response map is distinct from the second response map.
461. The method of claim 458, further comprising operating an interface controller communicatively coupled to the hardware interface and the inspection controller, wherein the operating comprises interpreting data from the first hardware component utilizing the first response map, interpreting data from the second hardware component utilizing the second response map, and communicating with the inspection controller in response to the first command set.
462. The method of claim 461, further comprising updating computer readable instructions accessible by the interface controller before operating the inspection controller in communication with the second hardware component.
463. The method of claim 458, wherein utilizing the first command set comprises providing actuator command values.
464. The method of claim 458, wherein utilizing the first command set comprises interpreting sensor data values.
465. A system, comprising:
an inspection controller circuit structured to operate an inspection robot utilizing a first command set;
43. A tether for connecting an inspection robot to a base station, the tether comprising:
a hardware interface in communication with the inspection controller circuit, wherein the hardware interface utilizes a first command set;
a first hardware component operatively couplable to the hardware interface, wherein the first hardware component comprises a first response map, and wherein the inspection robot using the first hardware component comprises a first inspection capability;
a second hardware component operatively couplable to the hardware interface, wherein the second hardware component has a second response map distinct from the first response map and wherein the inspection robot using the second hardware component comprises a second inspection capability; and
wherein the inspection controller circuit is further structured to control the first hardware component or the second hardware component with the first command set.
466. The system of claim 465, wherein the first inspection capability and the second inspection capability are distinct.
467. The system of claim 465, wherein the first hardware component or the second hardware component comprises:
a sensor; and
a sensor control circuit structured to convert a sensor response of the sensor to a sensed parameter value.
468. The system of claim 467, wherein converting the sensor response comprises an analog-to-digital (A/D) converter instruction set.
469. The system of claim 467, wherein converting the sensor response comprises an operation selected from a list of operations consisting of: debouncing, noise removal, filtering, saturation management, slew rate management, hysteresis operations, and diagnostic processing.
an electrical power conduit comprising an electrically conductive material; a working fluid conduit defining a working fluid passage therethrough;
470. The system of claim 467, wherein the inspection controller circuit is further structured to utilize the sensed parameter value.
471. The system of claim 465, further comprising:
a data acquisition box (DAQ) in communication with the hardware interface, the DAQ structured to receive a sensor response from the first hardware component or the second hardware component, wherein the first hardware component or the second hardware component comprises a sensor;
a sensor control circuit structured to receive the sensor response from the DAQ and convert the sensor response to a sensed parameter value.
472. The system of claim 471, wherein the DAQ is further structured to filter or multiplex the sensor response prior to communicating the sensor response to the sensor control circuit.
473. The system of claim 471, wherein the inspection controller circuit is further structured to utilize the sensed parameter value.
474. The system of claim 471, further comprising a DAQ calibration circuit structured to interpret the sensed parameter value using a calibration map.
475. The system of claim 474, wherein the calibration map is selected from a group of available calibrations in response to an identity of the first hardware component or the second hardware component.
476. The system of claim 474, wherein the DAQ calibration circuit is further structured to update the calibration map in response to hardware component being operatively coupled to the hardware interface.
477. The system of claim 474, wherein the DAQ calibration circuit is further structured to receive a firmware update in response to a hardware component being operatively coupled to the hardware interface.
a base station interface positioned at a first end of the tether, the base station interface operable to couple the tether to a base station;
478. The system of claim 471, wherein a change in hardware component operatively coupled to the hardware interface comprises replacing the DAQ.
479. The system of claim 465, wherein the first hardware component or the second hardware component comprises a device selected from a list consisting of a painting device, an actuator, a camera, a welding device, a marking device, and a cleaning device.
480. An inspection robot, comprising:
a robot body comprising an inspection coordination controller structured to control a first inspection utilizing a first command set;
a hardware interface in communication with the inspection coordination controller: a first sensor operatively couplable to the hardware interface, wherein the first sensor has a first response map;
a second sensor operatively couplable to the hardware interface, wherein the second sensor has a second response map, wherein the second response map is distinct from the first response map; and
wherein the inspection coordination controller is further structured to control, using the first command set, the first sensor or the second sensor
481. The robot of claim 480, wherein the first sensor and the second sensor are swappable
482. The robot of claim 480, wherein the first sensor or the second sensor comprises a sensor control circuit structured to convert a sensor response of the first sensor or the second sensor to a sensed parameter value.
483. The robot of claim 482, wherein the sensor control circuit is further structured to provide the sensed parameter value to the hardware interface.
a robot interface positioned at a second end of the tether, the robot interface operable to couple the tether to the inspection robot;
484. The robot of claim 482, wherein converting the sensor response comprises an operation selected from a list of operations consisting of: debouncing, noise removal, filtering, saturation management, slew rate management, hysteresis operations, and diagnostic processing.
485. The robot of claim 482, wherein converting the sensor response comprises providing an analog to digital conversion.
486. The robot of claim 482, further comprising a data acquisition circuit in communication with the hardware interface, wherein the data acquisition circuit is structured to receive the sensed parameter value.
487. The robot of claim 486, wherein data acquisition circuit is further structured to perform, on the sensed parameter value, an operation selected from a list of operations consisting of: debouncing, noise removal, filtering, saturation management, slew rate management, hysteresis operations, and diagnostic processing.
488. The robot of claim 482, further comprising a sensed value processing circuit structured to convert the sensed parameter value to an inspection value.
489. The robot of claim 488, wherein the sensed value processing circuit is further structured to provide the inspection value to a virtual sensor model or a sensor model.
490. The robot of claim 480, further comprising a plurality of drive modules; each drive module operatively coupled to the hardware interface.
491. The robot of claim 490, wherein each of plurality of drive modules comprises a drive controller in communication with the inspection coordination controller.
492. An apparatus for tracking inspection data, comprising
an inspection chassis comprising a plurality of inspection sensors configured to interrogate an inspection surface;
a strain relief;
a first drive module coupled to the inspection chassis, the first drive module comprising a first passive encoder wheel and a first non-contact sensor positioned in proximity to the first passive encoder wheel, wherein the first non-contact sensor provides a first movement value corresponding to the first passive encoder wheel;
a second drive module coupled to the inspection chassis, the second drive module comprising a second passive encoder wheel and a second non-contact sensor positioned in proximity to the second passive encoder wheel, wherein the second non-contact sensor provides a second movement value corresponding to the second passive encoder wheel; an inspection position circuit structured to determine a relative position of the inspection chassis in response to the first movement value and the second movement value.
493. The apparatus of claim 492, wherein the first and second movement values are in response to a rotation of the first and second passive encoder wheels respectively.
494. The apparatus of claim 492, wherein the first and second non-contact sensors are selected from a list consisting of a visual sensor, an electro-mechanical sensor, and a mechanical sensor.
495. The apparatus of claim 492, further comprising a processed data circuit structured to:
receive the relative position of the inspection chassis and inspection data from the plurality of inspection sensors; and
determine relative position-based inspection data in response to the relative position and the inspection data.
496. The apparatus of claim 492, wherein the inspection position circuit is further structured to determine the relative position of the inspection chassis in response to a first circumference value of the first passive encoder wheel and a second circumference value of the second passive encoder wheel.
497. The apparatus of claim 496, wherein the first and second drive modules provide the first and second circumference values respectively to the inspection position circuit.
498. The apparatus of claim 492, wherein the inspection position circuit is further structured to determine the relative position of the inspection chassis in response to a reference position.
a wear resistance coating; and
499. The apparatus of claim 498, wherein the reference position is selected from a list of positions consisting of: a global positioning system location, a specified latitude and longitude, a plant location reference, an inspection surface location reference, and an equipment location reference.
500. A method for determining a location of a robot, comprising:
identifying an initial position of the robot;
providing a first movement value of a first encoder wheel for a first drive module; providing a second movement value of a second encoder wheel for a second drive module;
calculating a passive position change value for the robot in response to the first and second movement values; and
determining a current position of the robot in response to the position change value and a previous position of the robot.
501. The method of claim 500, wherein providing the first movement value comprises measuring a rotation of the first encoder wheel.
502. The method of claim 501, wherein calculating a passive position change value is done in response to the first movement value and a circumference of the first encoder wheel.
503. The method of claim 502, wherein calculating a passive position change value is done in response to a distance between the first and second encoder wheels.
504. The method of claim 500, further comprising: receiving a first driven movement value for the first drive module; receiving a second driven movement value for the second drive module;
electromagnetic shielding.
calculating a driven position change value for the robot in response to the first and second driven movement values;
determining a difference between the driven position change value and the passive position change value; and
setting an alarm value in response to the difference exceeding a maximum position noise value.
505. A system for viewing inspection data, comprising:
an inspection robot comprising:
an inspection chassis comprising a plurality of inspection sensors configured to interrogate an inspection surface;
a first drive module coupled to the inspection chassis, the first drive module comprising a first passive encoder wheel and a first non-contact sensor positioned in proximity to the first passive encoder wheel, wherein the first non-contact sensor provides a first movement value corresponding to the first passive encoder wheel;
a second drive module coupled to the inspection chassis, the second drive module comprising a second passive encoder wheel and a second non-contact sensor positioned in proximity to the second passive encoder wheel, wherein the second non-contact sensor provides a second movement value corresponding to the second passive encoder wheel; an inspection position circuit structured to determine a relative position of the inspection robot in response to the first movement value, the second movement value, and a reference position; and further structured to provide a position of the inspection robot relative to the reference position to a user display device.
506. The system of claim 505, further comprising a processed data circuit structured to:
receive the relative position of the inspection chassis and inspection data from a subset of the plurality of inspection sensors; and
44. The tether of claim 43, further comprising a communication conduit, wherein the communication conduit comprises an optical fiber or a metal wire.
determine relative position-based inspection data in response to the position and the inspection data.
507. The system of claim 506, wherein the user display device is further structured to display the relative position-based inspection data.
508. The system of claim 507, wherein the relative position-based inspection data is displayed as an overlay of a map of the inspection surface.
509. The system of claim 505, wherein the inspection position circuit is further structured to determine the relative position of the inspection robot in response to a reference position.
510. The system of claim 509, wherein the reference position is selected from a list of positions consisting of: a global positioning system location, a specified latitude and longitude, a plant location reference, an inspection surface location reference, and an equipment location reference.
511. The system of claim 505, wherein the inspection position circuit is further structured to determine the relative position of the inspection chassis in response to a first circumference value of the first passive encoder wheel and a second circumference value of the second passive encoder wheel.
512. A modular drive assembly for an inspection robot comprising:
a chassis;
a magnetic wheel assembly mounted to the chassis;
an electromagnetic motor coupled to the magnetic wheel assembly;
45. The tether of claim 43, wherein the electrical power conduit further comprises a communications conduit.
an electromagnetic sensor operationally coupled to the electromagnetic motor, and positioned to measure a rotational speed of the electromagnetic motor; and
a magnetic shielding assembly structured to shield the electromagnetic sensor from electromagnetic interference generated by the magnetic wheel assembly.
513. The modular drive assembly of claim 512, wherein the electromagnetic sensor is a hall effect sensor.
514. The modular drive assembly of claim 512, wherein the electromagnetic sensor interfaces with electromagnetic radiation of the electromagnetic motor on a first side of the electromagnetic sensor, and wherein the magnetic shielding assembly at least partially shields a second side of the electromagnetic sensor.
515. The modular drive assembly of claim 514, wherein the magnetic shielding assembly is further structured to shield the electromagnetic motor from the electromagnetic interference.
516. The modular drive assembly of claim 515, wherein the magnetic shielding assembly comprises a motor sleeve portion at least partially defining an inductance coil of the electromagnetic motor.
517. The modular drive assembly of claim 516, wherein the magnetic shielding assembly further comprises a sensor extension portion, and wherein the sensor extension portion at least partially defines the second side of the electromagnetic sensor.
518. The modular drive assembly of claim 514, wherein the first side of the electromagnetic sensor comprises an inspection surface engagement side.
519. The modular drive assembly of claim 518, wherein the second side of the electromagnetic sensor comprises an opposite side of the electromagnetic sensor.
520. The modular drive assembly of claim 514, wherein the second side of the electromagnetic sensor comprises a side opposite an inspection surface engagement side.
46. The tether of claim 43, wherein the working fluid conduit has an inner diameter of about one eighth of an inch.
521. The modular drive assembly of claim 517, wherein motor sleeve portion defines an opening within which at least a portion of the inductance coil is disposed.
522. The modular drive assembly of claim 517, wherein the sensor extension portion comprises a solid conductive material.
523. The modular drive assembly of claim 522, wherein the motor sleeve portion comprises a wire mesh.
524. The modular drive assembly of claim 522, wherein the motor sleeve portion comprises a perforated conductive material.
525. The modular drive assembly of claim 522, wherein the motor sleeve portion comprises a second solid conductive material.
526. The modular drive assembly of claim 512, wherein magnetic shielding assembly comprises at least one conductive material selected from the materials consisting of: steel, copper, nickel, silver, tin, and alloys including any one or more of the foregoing.
527. The modular drive assembly of claim 512, wherein the magnetic wheel assembly comprises a magnetic hub portion interposed between ferrous enclosure portions.
528. The modular drive assembly of claim 527, wherein at least one of the ferrous enclosure portions is magnetically interposed between the magnetic hub portion and the electromagnetic sensor.
529. The modular drive assembly of claim 528, wherein the magnetic shielding assembly is magnetically interposed between the magnetic hub portion and the
electromagnetic sensor.
47. A payload for an inspection robot for inspecting an inspection surface, the payload comprising:
530. A method of inspecting an inspection surface with an inspection robot, the method comprising:
operating an electromagnetic motor to drive a magnetic wheel assembly of an inspection robot;
measuring a rotational speed of the electromagnetic motor with an electromagnetic sensor operationally coupled to the electromagnetic motor; and shielding the electromagnetic sensor from electromagnetic interference generated by the magnetic wheel assembly.
531. The method of claim 530, wherein the shielding comprises shielding a side of the electromagnetic sensor that is opposite an inspection surface engagement side.
532. The method of claim 530, further comprising shielding at least a portion of a coil of the electromagnetic motor from the electromagnetic interference.
533. The method of claim 532, wherein the shielding at least a portion of the coil comprises operating the electromagnetic motor at least partially positioned within a motor sleeve of a shield member.
534. The method of claim 533, wherein the shielding the electromagnetic sensor comprises operating the electromagnetic sensor interfacing with the electromagnetic motor on a first side, and positioned with a sensor extension portion of the shield member covering a second side.
535. The method of claim 530, wherein shielding the electromagnetic sensor further comprising providing the magnetic wheel assembly with a magnetic hub portion, and a ferrous enclosure portion magnetically interposed between the magnetic hub portion and the electromagnetic sensor.
536. An inspection robot, comprising:
a robot body;
a payload coupler having a first portion and a second portion, the first portion selectively couplable to a chassis of the inspection robot;
at least two sensors positioned to interrogate an inspection surface, wherein the at least two sensors are communicatively coupled to the robot body;
a drive module comprising at least two wheels that engage the inspection surface, wherein the drive module is coupled to the robot body;
a stability assist device coupled to at least one of the robot body or the drive module; an actuator coupled to the stability assist device at a first end, and coupled to one of the drive module or the robot body at a second end, wherein the actuator is structured to selectively move the stability assist device between a first position and a second position, wherein the first position comprises a stored position, and wherein the second position comprises a deployed position.
537. The inspection robot of claim 536, wherein, in the deployed position, the stability assist device urges the inspection robot to an engaged position with the inspection surface.
538. The inspection robot of claim 536, wherein the stability assist device comprises an upper stability body rotationally coupled to a lower stability body.
539. The inspection robot of claim 538, wherein the stability assist device further comprises a stability spring positioned to oppose rotation of the upper stability body toward the lower stability body.
540. The inspection robot of claim 536, wherein the stability assist device comprises a stability wheel positioned to engage the inspection surface when the stability assist device is in the second position.
541. The inspection robot of claim 540, wherein the stability wheel is magnetic.
542. The inspection robot of claim 536, wherein the stability assist device comprises a dragbar.
543. A method of operating an inspection robot on a vertical inspection surface, the method comprising:
an arm having a first end and a second end, the first end coupled to the second portion of the payload coupler;
inspecting the vertical inspection surface with an inspection robot having a stability assist device in a first position;
determining a stability request value; and
moving the stability assist device to a second position in response to the stability request value.
544. The method of claim 543, wherein moving the stability assist device to the second position comprises urging the robot toward the vertical inspection surface.
545. The method of claim 543, wherein determining the stability request value further comprises determining a movement dampening request, the method further comprising controllably articulating the stability assist device between the first position and the second position in response to the movement dampening request.
546. The method of claim 543, wherein moving the stability assist device to the second position further comprises limiting a rotation of the inspection robot relative to the vertical inspection surface.
547. The method of claim 543, further comprising moving the stability assist device to a third position in response to the stability request value.
548. The method of claim 547, wherein moving the stability assist device to the third position comprises providing additional urging force of the inspection robot toward the vertical inspection surface relative to the stability device in the second position.
549. The method of claim 547, wherein the stability assist device further comprises an upper portion coupled to the inspection robot at a first end of the upper portion, and a lower portion rotatably coupled to the upper portion at a second end of the upper portion, and wherein moving the stability assist device to the third position further comprises extending the lower portion of the stability assist device.
550. The method of claim 543, wherein the first position position of the stability assist device comprises a stored position.
one or more sleds mounted to the second end of the arm; and at least two inspection sensors, wherein each of the at least two inspection sensors are mounted to a corresponding sled of the one or more sleds, and operationally couplable to the inspection surface;
551. A system, comprising:
an inspection robot comprising:
a magnetic wheel that engages an inspection surface;
a plurality of sensors positioned to interrogate the inspection surface;
a stability assist device motively coupled to the inspection robot;
an actuator moveably coupled to the stability assist device and the inspection robot, wherein the actuator is structured to selectively move the stability assist device between a first position and a second deployed position.
552. The system of claim 551, wherein the stability assist device is motively coupled to a front surface of the inspection robot along a direction of travel of the inspection robot.
553. The system of claim 552, wherein the stability assist device comprises an elastomer bumper positioned to dampen forward movement of the inspection robot when in contact with an obstacle on the inspection surface.
554. The system of claim 551, wherein the stability assist device is motively coupled to a rear surface of the inspection robot along a direction of travel of the inspection robot.
555. The system of claim 554, wherein the first position comprises a stored position.
wherein the second portion of the payload coupler is moveable in relation to the first portion.
556. The system of claim 551, wherein the stability assist device comprises an upper stability body rotationally connected to a lower stability body.
557. The system of claim 556, wherein the stability assist device further comprises a stability spring positioned to oppose rotation of the upper stability body toward the lower stability body.
558. The system of claim 551, where in the stability assist device comprises an angle limiter configured to limit rotation of the inspection robot relative to the stability assist device.
559. The system of claim 558, wherein moving the actuator to the second position rotates the stability assist device relative to the inspection robot.
560. An inspection robot, comprising:
an inspection chassis;
a drive module coupled to the inspection chassis, the drive module comprising: a plurality of magnetic wheels, each magnetic wheel having a contact surface below an inspection side of the inspection chassis;
a motor;
a gear box operationally interposed between the motor and at least one of the plurality of magnetic wheels; and
wherein the gear box comprises a flex spline cup structured to interact with a ring gear and wherein the ring gear has fewer teeth than the flex spline cup.
48. The payload of claim 47, wherein the second portion of the payload coupler is rotatable with respect to the first portion.
561. The inspection robot of claim 560, wherein the gear box further comprises a non circular ball bearing mounted to a motor shaft of the motor and wherein the non-circular ball bearing engages with the flex spline cup.
562. The inspection robot of claim 560, wherein the gear box further comprises a thrust washer positioned axially adjacent to the flex spline cup.
563. The inspection robot of claim 560, wherein the gear box further comprises a thrust washer positioned axially adjacent to the ring gear.
564. The inspection robot of claim 560, further comprising an output drive shaft, wherein the output drive shaft is operatively coupled to the ring gear and operatively coupled to at least one of the plurality of magnetic wheels.
565. The inspection robot of claim 564, wherein the output drive shaft is operatively coupled to a second one of the plurality of magnetic wheels and wherein the at least one of the plurality of magnetic wheels and the second one of the plurality of magnetic wheels are located on axially opposing sides of the gear box.
566. The inspection robot of claim 560, wherein at least one of the ring gear or the flex spline cup is comprised of non-ferrous material.
567. The inspection robot of claim 566, wherein the non-ferrous material is selected from a list of materials consisting of: polyoxymethylene, 316 stainless steel, 304 stainless steel, and aluminum.
568. The inspection robot of claim 566, wherein the non-ferrous material is selected from a list of materials consisting of: ceramic, nylon, copper, and brass.
569. A method of driving an inspection robot:
rotating a motor shaft to drive a flex spline cup having a first number of gear teeth; engaging the flex spline cup with a ring gear having a second number of gear teeth; driving a drive shaft coupled to the ring gear at a differential speed relative to the motor shaft; and
49. The payload of claim 48, wherein the first end of the arm is moveable in relation to the second portion of the payload coupler.
rotating a first magnetic wheel coupled to the drive shaft.
570. The method of claim 569, further comprising interacting the flex spline cup with a non-circular ball bearing.
571. The method of claim 569, further comprising applying a thrust load to a thrust washer.
572. An inspection system, comprising:
an inspection robot, comprising:
an inspection chassis;
a plurality of drive modules coupled to the inspection chassis, each drive module comprising:
a plurality of magnetic wheels, each magnetic wheel having a contact surface below a bottom side of the inspection chassis;
a motor;
a gear box operationally interposed between the motor and at least one of the plurality of magnetic wheels; and
50. The payload of claim 49, wherein the first end of the arm rotates in relation to the second portion of the payload coupler.
a base station comprising a power supply circuit structured to provide power to the inspection robot,
wherein the gear box comprises a flex spline cup structured to interact with a ring gear and wherein the ring gear has fewer teeth than the flex spline cup
573. The system of claim 572, further comprising a tether structured to transfer power from the power supply circuit to the inspection robot.
574. The system of claim 573, wherein the transferred power operates the motor.
575. The system of claim 572, wherein the gear box further comprises a non-circular ball bearing mounted to a motor shaft of the motor and wherein the non-circular ball bearing engages with the flex spline cup.
576. The system of claim 572, wherein the gear box further comprises a thrust washer positioned axially adjacent to the flex spline cup.
577. The system of claim 572, wherein the gear box further comprises a thrust washer positioned axially adjacent to the ring gear.
578. The system of claim 572, wherein each drive module further comprises an output drive shaft, wherein the output drive shaft is operatively coupled to the ring gear and operatively coupled to at least one of the plurality of magnetic wheels.
579. The system of claim 578, wherein the output drive shaft is operatively coupled to a second one of the plurality of magnetic wheels and wherein the at least one of the plurality of magnetic wheels and the second one of the plurality of magnetic wheels are located on axially opposing sides of the gear box.
580. A system, comprising:
51. The payload of claim 50, wherein the first portion of the payload coupler is rotatable with respect to a first axis, and wherein the first end of the arm is rotatable in a second axis distinct from the first axis.
an inspection control circuit structured to operate an inspection robot utilizing a first command set;
a hardware interface in communication with the inspection control circuit, wherein the hardware interface utilizes the first command set;
a first hardware component operatively couplable to the hardware interface, wherein the first hardware component comprises a first hardware controller, the first hardware controller comprising a first response map, the first hardware controller structured to command the first hardware component in response to the first command set; and
a second hardware component operatively couplable to the hardware interface, wherein the second hardware component comprises a second hardware controller, the second hardware controller comprises a second response map , the first hardware controller structured to command the second hardware component in response to the first command set.
581. The system of claim 580, wherein commanding the first hardware component comprises determining a local command set in response to the first command set and the first response map.
582. The system of claim 580, wherein the first response map and the second response map are distinct.
583. The system of claim 580, further comprising a first drive module, wherein the first drive module comprises a first drive controller structured to determine a first drive signal in response to the first command set and a first drive module response map.
584. The system of claim 583, wherein the first drive module further comprises a first motor wherein the first motor is responsive to the first drive signal.
585. The system of claim 584, further comprising a second drive module, wherein the first drive module comprises a second drive controller structured to determine a second drive signal in response to the first command set and a second drive module response map.
586. The system of claim 585, wherein the second drive module further comprises a second motor, wherein the second motor is responsive to the second drive signal.
52. The payload of claim 51, wherein the one or more sleds are rotatable in relation to the second end of the arm.
587. The system of claim 586, wherein the first drive module response map and the second drive module response map are distinct.
588. The system of claim 586, wherein the first drive signal and the second drive signal are distinct.
589. The system of claim 586, wherein the first hardware component or the second hardware component comprises:
a sensor; and
a sensor control circuit structured to convert a sensor response of the sensor to a sensed parameter value.
590. The system of claim 589, wherein converting the sensor response comprises an operation selected from a list of operations consisting of: debouncing, noise removal, filtering, saturation management, slew rate management, hysteresis operations, and diagnostic processing.
591. The system of claim 589, wherein the inspection control circuit is further structured to utilize the sensed parameter value.
592. The system of claim 586, wherein the first drive signal or the second drive signal comprises an operation selected from a list of operations consisting of: changing a voltage provided to a corresponding motor, or changing a current provided to the
corresponding motor.
593. The system of claim 580, further comprising a second hardware interface in communication with the inspection control circuit, wherein the second hardware interface utilizes the first command set.
53. The payload of claim 52, further comprising at least two sleds, and wherein the at least two sleds are rotatable as a group in relation to the second end of the arm.
594. A method of operating a robot, comprising:
operating a first drive module utilizing a first command set, wherein the first drive module comprises a first response map;
operating a second drive module utilizing the first command set, wherein the second drive module comprises a second response map;
determining a next movement value; selecting a drive command from the first command set in response to the next movement value; and
providing the drive command to the first drive module and the second drive module.
595. The method of claim 594, further comprising:
determining a first drive signal for the first drive module in response to the drive command and the first response map; and
determining a second drive signal for the second drive module in response to the drive command and the second response map.
596. The method of claim 595, wherein, in response to the drive command, the first drive signal and the second drive signal are distinct.
597. The method of claim 596, further comprising:
54. The payload of claim 47 further comprising:
adjusting the first drive module by a first adjustment amount in response to the first drive signal;
adjusting the second drive module by a second adjustment amount in response to the second drive signal,
wherein the first adjustment amount and the second adjustment amount have a common adjustment parameter.
598. The method of claim 597, wherein the common adjustment parameter comprises an adjustment parameter selected from a list of adjustment parameters consisting of: a speed, a distance, and a direction.
599. The method of claim 594, further comprising interrogating an inspection surface in response to the first command set.
600. An apparatus, comprising:
an inspection definition circuit structured to interpret an inspection description value;
a robot configuration circuit structured to determine an inspection robot configuration description in response to the inspection description value; and
a configuration implementation circuit communicatively coupled to a configuration interface of an inspection robot, and structured to provide at least a portion of the inspection robot configuration description to the configuration interface.
601. The apparatus of claim 600, wherein the configuration implementation circuit is further communicatively coupled to an operator interface, and structured to provide at least a second portion of the inspection robot configuration description to the operator interface.
a downward biasing force device structured to selectively apply a downward force to the at least two inspection sensors with respect to the inspection surface.
602. The apparatus of claim 600, wherein the inspection definition circuit is communicatively coupled to a user interface, and wherein the inspection definition circuit is further structured to interpret the inspection description value in response to a user inspection request value provided through the user interface.
603. The apparatus of claim 602, wherein the user inspection request value comprises an inspection type value.
604. The apparatus of claim 602, wherein the user inspection request value comprises an inspection resolution value.
605. The apparatus of claim 602, wherein the user inspection request value comprises an inspected condition value.
606. The apparatus of claim 602, wherein the user inspection request value comprises an inspection ancillary capability value.
607. The apparatus of claim 602, wherein the user inspection request value comprises an inspection constraint value.
608. The apparatus of claim 600, wherein the inspection robot configuration description comprises at least one parameter selected from the parameters consisting of:
an inspection sensor type description;
an inspection sensor number description;
an inspection sensor distribution description;
55. The payload of claim 54, wherein the downward biasing force device is disposed on the second portion of the payload coupler.
an ancillary component description;
an inspection surface vertical extent description;
a couplant management component description; and
a base station capability description.
609. A system, comprising:
an inspection robot comprising:
an inspection controller structured to operate the inspection robot utilizing a first command set;
a hardware component operatively couplable to the inspection controller;
a hardware controller structured to interface with the inspection controller in response to the first command set, and to command the hardware component in response to the first command set; a robot configuration controller, comprising:
an inspection definition circuit structured to interpret an inspection description value;
56. The payload of claim 54, wherein the downward biasing force device includes at least one biasing force device selected from the biasing force devices consisting of:
a robot configuration circuit structured to determine an inspection robot configuration description in response to the inspection description value; and
a configuration implementation circuit communicatively coupled to at least one of a configuration interface of the inspection robot or an operator interface;
wherein the system further comprises at least one of:
the hardware controller communicatively coupled to the configuration interface of the inspection robot, and structured to determine a response map for the hardware component in response to at least a portion of the inspection robot configuration description; or
an operator interface, and wherein the configuration implementation circuit is structured to provide at least a portion of the inspection robot configuration description to the operator interface.
610. The system of claim 609, further comprising:
wherein the inspection definition circuit is communicatively coupled to a user interface; and
wherein the inspection definition circuit is further structured to interpret the inspection description value in response to a user inspection request value provided through the user interface.
611. The system of claim 610, wherein the user inspection request value comprises an inspection type value.
612. The system of claim 610, wherein the user inspection request value comprises an inspection resolution value.
a weight;
613. The system of claim 610, wherein the user inspection request value comprises an inspected condition value.
614. The system of claim 610, wherein the user inspection request value comprises an inspection ancillary capability value.
615. The system of claim 610, wherein the user inspection request value comprises an inspection constraint value.
616. The system of claim 609, wherein the inspection robot configuration description comprises an inspection sensor type description.
617. The system of claim 609, wherein the inspection robot configuration description comprises an inspection sensor number description.
618. The system of claim 609, wherein the inspection robot configuration description comprises an inspection sensor distribution description.
619. The system of claim 609, wherein the inspection robot configuration description comprises an ancillary component description.
620. The system of claim 609, wherein the inspection robot configuration description comprises an inspection surface vertical extent description.
621. The system of claim 609, wherein the inspection robot configuration description comprises a couplant management component description.
622. The system of claim 609, wherein the inspection robot configuration description comprises a base station capability description.
a spring;
623. A method, comprising:
interpreting an inspection description value;
determining an inspection robot configuration description in response to the inspection description value; and
communicating at least a portion of the inspection description value to at least one of a configuration interface of an inspection robot or an operator interface.
624. The method of claim 623, further comprising adjusting at least one of a sensor type, a number of sensors, or a sensor distribution of at least two inspection sensors of the inspection robot in response to the at least a portion of the inspection description.
625. The method of claim 624, further comprising, in response to the adjusting: determining a response map of a hardware controller of the inspection robot in response to the adjusted at least one of the sensor type, the number of sensors, or the sensor distribution;
operating an inspection controller of the inspection robot utilizing a first command set; and
operating the hardware controller in response to the first command set, and to command the at least two sensors, utilizing the response map, in response to the first command set.
626. The method of claim 624, further comprising, in response to the adjusting: determining a hardware controller of the inspection robot in response to the adjusted at least one of the sensor type, the number of sensors, or the sensor distribution;
operating an inspection controller of the inspection robot utilizing a first command set; and
an electromagnet;
operating the determined hardware controller of the inspection robot in response to the first command set, and to command the at least two sensors further in response to the first command set.
627. The method of claim 623, further comprising adjusting at least one of an actuator type or a number of actuators of at least one actuator of the inspection robot in response to the at least a portion of the inspection description.
628. The method of claim 627, further comprising, in response to the adjusting: determining a response map of a hardware controller of the inspection robot in response to the adjusted at least one of the actuator type or the number of actuators;
operating an inspection controller of the inspection robot utilizing a first command set; and
operating the hardware controller in response to the first command set, and to command the at least one actuator, utilizing the response map, in response to the first command set.
629. The method of claim 627, further comprising, in response to the adjusting: determining a hardware controller of the inspection robot in response to the adjusted at least one of the actuator type or the number of actuators;
operating an inspection controller of the inspection robot utilizing a first command set; and
operating the determined hardware controller of the inspection robot in response to the first command set, and to command the at least one actuator further in response to the first command set.
630. The method of claim 623, further comprising:
operating a user interface, and receiving a user inspection request value from the user interface; and
a permanent magnet; and
interpreting the inspection description value further in response to the user inspection request value.
631. A method, comprising:
commanding operation a first component of an inspection robot with a first command set;
operating the first component in response to the first command set and a first response map;
uncoupling the first component from a first component interface of the inspection robot;
coupling a second component of the inspection robot to the first component interface of the inspection robot;
commanding operation of the second component with the first command set; and operating the second component in response to the first command set and a second response map.
632. The method of claim 631, wherein the first component comprises a first sensor carriage having at least two sensors coupled thereto, and wherein the second component comprises a second sensor carriage having at least two sensors coupled thereto.
633. The method of claim 632, wherein the first sensor carriage comprises a distinct inspection configuration relative to the second sensor carriage.
634. The method of claim 631, wherein the first component comprises a first inspection payload, and wherein the second component comprises a second inspection payload.
an actuator.
635. The method of claim 631, wherein commanding operation of the first component or the second component with the first command set comprises at least one operation selected from the operations consisting of:
providing an inspection trajectory for the inspection robot; providing sensor activation instructions for a plurality of sensors corresponding to the first component or the second component;
providing couplant flow commands for the first component or the second component; providing position data commands corresponding to inspection data from the first component or the second component; and
providing a result command for the first component or the second component.
636. The method of claim 631, wherein operating the first component comprises interpreting the commanded operation based on the first response map.
637. The method of claim 635, wherein operating the second component comprises interpreting the commanded operation based on the second response map.
638. The method of claim 631, wherein the first response map and the second response map are distinct.
639. The method of claim 631, further comprising determining which of the first component or the second component is coupled to the first component interface, and selecting an appropriate one of the first response map or the second response map based on the coupled component.
640. The method of claim 631, wherein operating the first component further comprises interpreting the first response map, and wherein interpreting the first response map comprises at least one operation selected from the operations consisting of:
interpreting the first response map based on data received from the first component;
57. The payload of claim 54, wherein the downward biasing force device includes a weight moveable between a first position applying a first downward force and a second position applying a second downward force.
interpreting the first response map based on identifying data received from the first component;
analyzing data from the first component in response to at least the first response map, and interpreting the first response map as the correct map in response to the analyzing.
641. An inspection robot, comprising:
an inspection chassis comprising a first hardware interface comprising a first quick release connection;
an inspection controller communicatively coupled to the first hardware interface, and structured to control a component payload using a first command set;
a first component payload, operably couplable to the first hardware interface, comprising:
a first component having a first response map, the first component structured to interact with the inspection controller using the first command set;
a second component payload, operably couplable to the first hardware interface, comprising:
a second component having a second response map, wherein the second component is structured to interact with the inspection controller using the first command set; and
wherein the first component payload and the second component payload are swappable using the quick release connection.
58. The payload of claim 54, wherein the downward biasing force device comprises a spring, and a biasing force adjustor moveable between a first position applying a first downward force and a second position applying a second downward force.
642. The inspection robot of claim 641, wherein the first component comprises at least two sensors, and wherein the second component comprises at least two sensors.
643. The inspection robot of claim 642, wherein the first response map is distinct from the second response map.
644. The inspection robot of claim 642, wherein the first component comprises a different number of sensor relative to the second component.
645. The inspection robot of claim 642, wherein the first hardware interface comprises a couplant connection.
646. The inspection robot of claim 641, wherein the first command set comprises at least one set of command parameters selected from the command parameters consisting of: an inspection trajectory for the inspection robot;
sensor activation instructions for the inspection robot;
couplant flow commands for the inspection robot;
position data commands corresponding to inspection data from the first component or the second component for the inspection robot;
a result command for the inspection robot; and
an inspection result command for the inspection robot.
59. The payload of claim 58, wherein the spring comprises at least one of a torsion spring, a tension spring, a compression spring, or a disc spring.
647. The inspection robot of claim 641, further comprising an intermediary controller structured to determine whether the first component payload or the second component payload is coupled to the first hardware interface, and to select an appropriate one of the first response map or the second response map based on the coupled component payload.
648. The inspection robot of claim 647, wherein the intermediary controller is further structured to determine whether the first component payload or the second component payload is coupled to the first hardware interface by performing at least one operation selected from the operations consisting of:
interrogating a coupled payload for identifying information;
analyzing data received from a coupled payload with the first response map and the second response map; and
analyzing data received from a coupled payload and determining the coupled payload in response to the analyzing
649. The inspection robot of claim 641, further comprising an intermediary controller structured to interpret a corresponding response map from the coupled payload, to adjust communications of the first command set in response to the corresponding response map, and to command operations of the coupled payload in response to the adjusted first command set.
650. The inspection robot of claim 649, wherein the intermediary controller is further structured to interpret inspection data from the coupled payload in response to the corresponding response map.
651. The inspection robot of claim 641, wherein the inspection chassis further comprises a second hardware interface comprising a second quick release connection, wherein the first component payload and the second component payload are operably couplable to the second hardware interface.
652. The inspection robot of claim 651, wherein the first component payload and the second component payload are swappable between the first hardware interface and the second hardware interface.
653. The inspection robot of claim 641, further comprising an additional plurality of component payloads, each payload comprising a plurality of corresponding components, wherein each component comprises a corresponding response map and is structured to interact with the inspection controller using the first command set.
60. The payload of claim 47 further comprising:
654. The inspection robot of claim 653, wherein each one of the additional plurality of component payloads comprises at least one component selected from a list of components consisting of: a sensor, an actuator, a welder, a visible marking device, a coating device, and a cleaning tool.
655. The inspection robot of claim 652, wherein the first component payload comprises a first drive module, wherein the second component payload comprises a second drive module, wherein the first hardware interface comprises a first connection port on a first chassis side of the inspection robot, and wherein the second hardware interface comprises a second connection port on a second chassis side of the inspection robot.
656. The inspection robot of claim 641, wherein each of the first response map and the second response map comprise at least one component description selected from the component descriptions consisting of:
a raw sensor data to processed value calibration;
an actuator command description;
a sensor output value;
an analog-to-digital description corresponding to the component;
diagnostic data corresponding to the associated component; and
fault code data corresponding to the associated component.
657. A system, comprising:
an inspection sensor position actuator structured to adjust a position of the at least two inspection sensors with respect to the inspection surface.
an inspection robot comprising:
at least two inspection sensors;
a drive module comprising a drive motor and a drive wheel;
an on-board controller;
a tether having a length at least equal to a vertical extent of an inspection surface, the tether comprising:
a high-voltage power line;
a proximity line;
a base station comprising:
a high-voltage protection and monitoring circuit structured interrogate the proximity line, and to generate a connection integrity value;
a voltage switch circuit structured to connect a high-voltage power source to the highvoltage power line based on the connection integrity value; and
61. The payload of claim 60, further comprising at least two sensors, wherein the payload coupler is moveable with respect to the chassis of the inspection robot and the inspection sensor position actuator is coupled to the chassis, wherein the inspection sensor position actuator in a first position moves the payload coupler to a corresponding first coupler position, thereby moving the at least two sensors to a corresponding first sensor position, and wherein the inspection sensor position actuator in a second position moves the payload coupler to a corresponding second coupler position, thereby moving the at least two sensors to a corresponding second sensor position.
wherein the tether electrically couples the base station to the inspection robot.
658. The system of claim 657, wherein the high-voltage power source comprises a voltage greater than or equal to at least one of the voltages consisting of: 24V, 42V, and 60V.
659. The system of claim 657, wherein the high-voltage power source comprises a voltage in a range of 350 volts to 400 volts.
660. The system of claim 657, wherein the base station is structured to receive an alternating current input, the base station further comprising:
a first power electronics component structured to provide the high voltage power source from the alternating current input; and
a second power electronics component structured to provide a lowvoltage direct current output from the alternating current input, and wherein the high-voltage protection and monitoring circuit is further structured to interrogate the proximity line utilizing the lowvoltage direct current output.
661. The system of claim 660, wherein the high-voltage protection and monitoring circuit is further structured to generate the connection integrity value by:
connecting the lowvoltage direct current output to the proximity line; and comparing a measured drop in power over the proximity line with an anticipated power drop value.
662. The system of claim 657, wherein the drive motor comprises a power rating that exceeds a combined gravitational force on the inspection robot and the tether.
663. The system of claim 657, wherein the vertical extent of the inspection surface comprises is greater than or equal to at least one vertical extent consisting of: 6 feet, 12 feet, 20 feet, 34 feet, 50 feet, 100 feet, and 200 feet.
62. The payload of claim 61, wherein the inspection sensor position actuator is structured to rotate the payload coupler between the first coupler position and the second coupler position.
664. The system of claim 657, wherein the base station further comprises solid state fuse, and wherein the high-voltage protection and monitoring circuit is further structured to reset the solid state fuse based on a reset command.
665. The system of claim 661, wherein the tether further comprises a data line coupled to the base station at a first end, and to the inspection robot at a second end.
666. The system of claim 657, wherein the tether further comprises a couplant line coupled to a couplant source at a first end, and to the inspection robot at a second end.
667. The system of claim 666, wherein the couplant source comprises a couplant pump fluidly interposed between a couplant reservoir and the first end of the couplant line.
668. The system of claim 667, wherein the base station further comprises a couplant pressure control circuit operationally coupled to the couplant pump.
669. The system of claim 657, wherein the tether further comprises a heat resistant jacket.
670. The system of claim 669, wherein the heat resistant jacket comprises a hightemperature silicone rubber.
671. A method of powering an inspection robot, comprising:
receiving, at a base station, alternating current electricity;
transforming, at the base station, a portion of the alternating current electricity into high-voltage direct current (DC) electricity;
63. The payload of claim 62, wherein the actuator is structured to horizontally translate the payload coupler between the first coupler position and the second coupler position.
determining a robot presence value corresponding to an inspection robot;
based on the robot presence value, transmitting the high-voltage direct current (DC) electricity from the base station to the inspection robot.
672. The method of claim 671, wherein determining a robot presence value comprises:
providing a low-current direct current voltage to a first end of a proximity line;
measuring a voltage drop at a second end of a proximity line; and
comparing the measured voltage drop to an anticipated voltage drop value.
673. The method of claim 671, further comprising providing the high-voltage DC electricity to a drive module of the inspection robot.
674. The method of claim 671, further comprising setting a connection alarm value based on the robot presence value.
675. A system, comprising:
an inspection robot comprising:
64. The payload of claim 47 further comprising:
an inspection chassis comprising:
an input couplant interface structured to receive an external couplant;
an output couplant interface;
a couplant manifold operationally coupled to the input and output couplant interfaces; a hardware interface;
an inspection payload operably couplable to the hardware interface and operably couplable to the output couplant interface, the inspection payload comprising:
a plurality of acoustic sensors utilizing the external couplant to enable contact between each of the plurality of acoustic sensors and a corresponding object being inspected; a base station comprising:
an external couplant interface structured to receiving a couplant from an external source; and
a vertically-enabled tether comprising a couplant line structured to transport the couplant from the base station to the input couplant interface.
676. The system of claim 675, wherein the base station further comprises an external couplant evaluation circuit structured to determine an external couplant status value.
677. The system of claim 676, wherein the external couplant status value is representative of a pressure or a flow rate of the couplant at the external couplant interface.
a couplant conduit structured to fluidly communicate couplant between a chassis couplant interface and a payload couplant interface, and wherein each of the at least two inspection sensors are fluidly coupled to the payload couplant interface.
678. The system of claim 677, wherein the base station further comprises a couplant pump structured to pump the couplant through the couplant line in response to the external couplant status value.
679. The system of claim 676, wherein the base station further comprises a radiator structured to thermally couple at least a portion of the couplant to an ambient environment.
680. The system of claim 679, wherein the external couplant evaluation circuit is further structured to determine a temperature of the external couplant, and to provide a cooling command in response to the temperature of the external couplant, and wherein the radiator is responsive to the cooling command.
681. A method, comprising:
receiving a couplant;
transporting the couplant through a tether to a robot chassis;
further transporting the couplant from the robot chassis to a payload; and utilizing the couplant to facilitate contact between an acoustic sensor on the payload and a corresponding object being inspected.
682. The method of claim 681, further comprising evaluating an incoming couplant characteristic.
683. The method of claim 682, wherein the incoming couplant characteristic comprises at least one of a pressure, a flow rate, or a temperature.
684. The method of claim 681, further comprising pumping the couplant through the tether.
65. The payload of claim 64, further comprising:
685. The method of claim 681, further comprising controlling a couplant pressure or a couplant flow rate to the payload.
686. The method of claim 681, further comprising controlling a couplant pressure or a couplant flow rate to a coupling chamber positioned between the acoustic sensor and the corresponding object.
687. The method of claim 683, wherein the incoming couplant characteristic comprises the temperature, the method further comprising selective rejecting heat from the received couplant before the transporting the couplant through the tether.
688. A system, comprising:
a base station comprising:
a base station couplant reservoir structured to store a couplant;
a couplant pump;
an inspection robot comprising:
an inspection chassis comprising:
a couplant manifold;
at least two sensor couplant channels, each of the at least two sensor couplant channels fluidly coupled to the payload couplant interface at a first end, and fluidly coupled to a couplant chamber for a corresponding one of the at least two inspection sensors at a second end.
an output couplant interface;
at least one inspection payload, each of the at least one inspection payload operably couplable to the output couplant interface, and comprising a plurality of acoustic sensors utilizing the couplant to enable contact between each of the plurality of acoustic sensors and a corresponding object being inspected; and
a vertically-enabled tether comprising a couplant line structured to transport the couplant from the base station to the couplant manifold on the inspection chassis, wherein the couplant pump is structured to pump the couplant into the couplant line.
689. The system of claim 688, wherein the at least one inspection payload further comprises a couplant evaluation circuit structured to provide a couplant status value.
690. The system of claim 689, wherein the couplant status value comprises a pressure or a flow rate.
691. The system of claim 689, wherein the inspection chassis further comprises at least two output couplant interfaces, each output couplant interface comprising a flow control circuit structured to control a payload couplant parameter of the couplant flowing to each of the at least one inspection payload.
692. The system of claim 691, wherein controlling the payload couplant parameter is in response to the couplant status value for a corresponding one of the at least one inspection payload.
693. The system of claim 692, wherein the payload couplant parameter is a pressure of the couplant or a flow rate of the couplant to a corresponding payload.
694. The system of claim 689, wherein each of the plurality of acoustic sensors comprises a sensor couplant evaluation circuit structured to provide a sensor couplant status value.
695. The system of claim 694, wherein each of the plurality of acoustic sensors further comprises a sensor flow control circuit structured to a control a sensor couplant parameter of the couplant flowing to a corresponding one of the plurality of acoustic sensors.
66. The payload of claim 65, wherein the arm defines at least a portion of each of the at least two sensor couplant channels.
696. The system of claim 695, wherein controlling the sensor couplant parameter is in response to the sensor couplant status value for the corresponding one of the plurality of the plurality of acoustic sensors.
697. A controller, comprising:
an inspection data circuit structured to interpret inspection base data comprising data provided by an inspection robot interrogating an inspection surface with a plurality of inspection sensors; an inspection processing circuit structured to determine refined inspection data in response to the inspection base data; and
an inspection configuration circuit structured to determine an inspection response value in response to the refined inspection data; and
an inspection response circuit structured to, in response to the inspection response value, provide an inspection command value during the interrogating the inspection surface by the inspection robot.
698. The controller of claim 697, further comprising a user communication circuit structured to provide the refined inspection data to a user device and to receive a user response command, wherein the inspection configuration circuit is further structured to determine the inspection response value in response to the user response command.
699. The controller of claim 697, further comprising:
a publishing circuit structured to provide the refined inspection data to a remote server; and
a user communication circuit structured to receive a user response command, wherein the inspection configuration circuit is further structured to determine the inspection response value in response to the user response command.
700. The controller of claim 697, further comprising:
67. The payload of claim 66 further comprising:
an inspection map configuration circuit structured to update an inspection map in response the inspection command value.
701. The controller of claim 700, further comprising:
a sensor reconfiguration circuit structured to provide a configuration parameter to the inspection robot in response to a reconfiguration command; and
wherein the update to the inspection map comprises at least one of:
a reconfiguration command; or
an update to a travel path of the inspection robot.
702. The controller of claim 701, wherein the reconfiguration command comprises a change to an attribute selected from a list of attributes consisting of: a sensor spacing, a couplant flow, and a force on an inspection sensor.
703. The controller of claim 702, wherein the update to the travel path of the inspection robot comprises re-traversing a portion of the inspection surface.
704. The controller of claim 701, wherein the update to the travel path of the inspection robot comprises an update to an x-y coverage resolution of the inspection robot.
705. The controller of claim 701, wherein the update to the travel path of the inspection robot comprises re-traversing a portion of the inspection surface.
a communication conduit structured to provide electrical communication between a chassis control interface and a payload control interface, and wherein each of the at least two inspection sensors are communicatively coupled to the payload control interface.
706. A method, comprising:
interrogating an inspection surface with a plurality of sensors; interpreting inspection base data;
determining refined inspection data in response to inspection base data; determining an inspection response value during the interrogating; and determining an inspection command value in response to the inspection response value.
707. The method of claim 706, further comprising:
providing refined inspection data to a user device;
receiving a user response command; and
further determining the inspection response value in response to the user response command.
708. The method of claim 706, further comprising:
providing the refined inspection data to a remote server;
receiving a user response command;
68. The payload of claim 67, wherein the communication conduit comprises: at least two sensor control channels, each of the at least two sensor control channels communicatively coupled to the payload control interface at a first end, and communicatively coupled to a corresponding one of the at least two inspection sensors at a second end.
further determining the inspection response value in response to the user response command.
709. The method of claim 706, further comprising updating an inspection map in response to the inspection command value.
710. The method of claim 706, further comprising: providing a reconfiguration command; and
updating a travel path of an inspection robot.
711. The method of claim 710, further comprising updating an x-y coverage resolution of the inspection robot.
712. An inspection robot, comprising:
an inspection chassis comprising a plurality of inspection sensors configured to interrogate an inspection surface;
at least one drive module coupled to the inspection chassis structured to drive the inspection robot over the inspection surface;
a controller, comprising:
an inspection data circuit structured to interpret inspection base data comprising data provided by an inspection robot interrogating an inspection surface with a plurality of inspection sensors;
69. The payload of claim 68, wherein the arm defines at least a portion of each of the at least two sensor control channels.
an inspection processing circuit structured to determine refined inspection data in response to the inspection base data; and
an inspection configuration circuit structured to determine an inspection response value in response to the refined inspection data; and
an inspection response circuit structured to, in response to the inspection response value, provide an inspection command value during the interrogating the inspection surface by the inspection robot.
713. The inspection robot of claim 712, further comprising:
an inspection map configuration circuit structured to update an inspection map in response the inspection command value.
714. The inspection robot of claim 713, further comprising:
a sensor reconfiguration circuit structured to provide a reconfiguration command in response to the inspection command value, wherein the reconfiguration command comprises a change to an attribute selected from a list of attributes consisting of: a sensor spacing, a couplant flow, a change in an inspection sensor, and a force on an inspection sensor.
715. The inspection robot of claim 714, wherein, in response to an update to the inspection map, the inspection robot is structured to re-traverse a portion of the inspection surface or update an x-y coverage of the interrogating.
716. The inspection robot of claim 712, further comprising:
a trailing payload structured to alter the inspection surface; and a payload operation circuit structured to selectively operate the trailing payload,
70. The payload of claim 47 further comprising:
wherein, the inspection command value comprises an operation selected from a list consisting of: repairing the inspection surface, painting the inspection surface, welding the inspection surface, and visibly marking the inspection surface.
717. The inspection robot of claim 712, further comprising sending an alarm to a user device in response to the inspection response value.
718. An inspection robot comprising :
a chassis;
a drive module mounted to the chassis and comprising a wheel assembly; a payload comprising:
a body;
a plurality of arms mounted to the body;
a plurality of sleds each mounted to one of the arms of the plurality; and
a plurality of inspection sensors each coupled to one sled of the plurality and operationally couplable to an inspection surface; and
wherein the wheel assembly comprises a heat resistant magnet.
a universal conduit structured to provide:
719. The inspection robot of claim 718, wherein the heat resistant magnet comprises a magnet having a working temperature rating of at least 250 F.
720. The inspection robot of claim 719, wherein the heat resistant magnet comprises a rare earth metal.
721. The inspection robot of claim 720, wherein the rare earth metal is neodymium.
722. The inspection robot of claim 718, wherein the heat resistant magnet comprises a magnet having a working temperature rating of at least 80 C.
723. The inspection robot of claim 718, wherein the heat resistant magnet comprises a magnet having a working temperature rating of at least 150 C.
724. The inspection robot of claim 718, further comprising a cooling plate thermally coupled to an electronic components of the robot.
725. The inspection robot of claim 718, further comprising:
a conduit structured to provide coolant to an electrical component disposed on the chassis.
726. The inspection robot of claim 725, wherein the coolant is a couplant directed by the conduit to the plurality of sleds for promoting acoustic coupling of at least a portion of the plurality of sensors to the inspection surface.
727. The inspection robot of claim 725, wherein the coolant is a selected from the coolants consisting of:
fluid communication of couplant between a chassis couplant interface and a couplant chamber corresponding to each of the at least two inspection sensors;
water;
an alcohol;
a glycol; and
combinations of the foregoing.
728. The inspection robot of claim 718, wherein at least one sled of the plurality of sleds comprises:
polyetherimide (PEI).
729. The inspection robot of claim 718, further comprising:
a tether coupled to the chassis and comprising a heat resistant jacketing.
730. The inspection robot of claim 729, wherein the heat resistant jacketing comprises: silicone rubber.
731. The inspection robot of claim 729, wherein the tether further comprises a conduit for couplant or coolant.
electrical communication between a chassis control interface and each of the at least two inspection sensors; and
732. A method, comprising:
operating an inspection robot on an inspection surface, the inspection robot comprising:
a chassis;
a drive module mounted to the chassis and comprising a wheel assembly;
a payload mounted to the chassis and comprising:
a body;
a plurality of arms mounted to the body;
a plurality of sleds each mounted to one of the arms of the plurality; and
a plurality of inspection sensors each coupled to one sled of the plurality and operationally couplable to the inspection surface;
wherein the wheel assembly comprises a heat resistant magnet;
electrical power between a chassis power interface and each of the at least two inspection sensors.
interrogating the inspection surface via the plurality of sensors to generate inspection data; and
determining refined inspection data based at least in part on the generated inspection data.
733. The method of claim 732, further comprising;
exposing the heat resistant magnet to a portion of the inspection surface below
260 F.
734. The method of claim 732, further comprising maintaining plant operations.
735. The method of claim 732, further comprising inspecting an inspection surface during plant warmup or plant cooldown.
736. The method of claim 732, further comprising transferring heat from an electrical component disposed on the chassis to a coolant.
737. The method of claim 736, further comprising providing a portion of the coolant to at least a portion of the plurality of sensors as an acoustic couplant.
738. The method of claim 737, further comprising recycling a remainder of the coolant to a coolant source.
71. The payload of claim 70, wherein the universal conduit comprises:
739. The method of claim 736, further comprising adjusting a rate of a flow of the coolant in response to a heat transfer requirement of the electrical component.
740. The method of claim 733, wherein cooling one or more electrical components disposed on the chassis via a coolant comprises cooling the coolant.
741. The method of claim 732, further comprising providing a service to the chassis through a tether, wherein the service is selected from a list of services consisting of: providing power, providing data communications, recycling a coolant or couplant, and providing a coolant or couplant.
742. A system, comprising:
an inspection robot comprising:
a chassis;
a drive module mounted to the chassis and comprising a wheel assembly;
a payload comprising:
a body;
a plurality of arms mounted to the body;
a single channel portion defining a single channel extending between the chassis and the payload coupler; and
a plurality of sleds each mounted to one of the arms of the plurality; and
a plurality of inspection sensors each coupled to one sled of the plurality and operationally couplable to an inspection surface;
wherein the wheel assembly comprises a heat resistant magnet;
a base station structured to cool a coolant; and
a tether coupled to the chassis and comprising a heat resistant jacketing, the tether operative to fluidly communicate the cooled coolant from the base station to one or more conduits structured to cool, via the coolant, one or more electrical components disposed on the chassis.
743. The system of claim 742, wherein the heat resistant magnet comprises a magnet having a working temperature rating of at least 250 F.
744. The system of claim 742, wherein the coolant is a couplant for promoting coupling of the plurality of sensors to the inspection surface.
745. An inspection robot comprising:
a chassis;
a payload comprising:
a multi-channel portion defining a plurality of channels extending between the payload coupler and each of the one or more sleds.
a body;
a plurality of arms mounted to the body;
a plurality of sleds each mounted to one of the arms of the plurality; and a plurality of inspection sensors each coupled to one sled of the plurality and operationally couplable to an inspection surface;
a drive module comprising at least two wheels that engage the inspection surface, wherein the drive module is coupled to the robot body;
a stability assist device coupled to at least one of the robot body or the drive module; an actuator coupled to the stability assist device at a first end, and coupled to one of the drive module or the center chassis at a second end, wherein the actuator is structured to selectively move the stability assist device between a first position and a second position, wherein the first position comprises a stored position,
wherein the second position comprises a deployed position, and
wherein at least one of the two wheels comprises a heat resistant magnet.
746. A system comprising:
an inspection robot comprising:
a center chassis;
72. The payload of claim 71, wherein the arm defines at least a portion of the multi-channel portion of the universal conduit.
at least two payloads;
at least two arms, wherein each arm is pivotally mounted to one of the at least two payloads;
at least two sleds, wherein each sled is mounted to one of the at least two arms; a plurality of inspection sensors, each of the inspection sensors coupled to one of the at least two sleds such that each sensor is operationally couplable to an inspection surface, wherein the at least two sleds are horizontally distributed on the inspection surface at selected horizontal positions, and wherein each of the arms is horizontally moveable relative to a corresponding payload;
a biasing device structured to apply a downward force on at least one of the at least two sleds in a direction towards the inspection surface;
a drive module comprising at least two wheels that engage the inspection surface, wherein the drive module is coupled to the center chassis;
a stability assist device coupled to at least one of the center chassis or the drive module; and
an actuator coupled to the stability assist device at a first end, and coupled to one of the drive module or the center chassis at a second end, wherein the actuator is structured to selectively move the stability assist device between a first position and a second position, wherein the first position comprises a stored position,
wherein the second position comprises a deployed position,
wherein the biasing device comprises both a passive component and an active component.
747. An inspection robot comprising:
73. The payload of claim 47, wherein the first portion of the payload coupler comprises:
a center chassis;
a payload coupler having a first portion and a second portion, the first portion selectively couplable to a chassis of the inspection robot, wherein the second portion of the payload coupler is moveable in relation to the first portion;
an arm having a first end and a second end, the first end coupled to the second portion of the payload coupler;
one or more sleds mounted to the second end of the arm;
at least two inspection sensors, wherein each of the at least two inspection sensors are mounted to a corresponding sled of the one or more sleds, and operationally couplable to the inspection surface;
a drive module coupled to the center chassis, the drive module having a drive wheel positioned to engage an inspection surface when the inspection robot is positioned on the inspection surface; and a drive piston mechanically interposed between the center chassis and the drive module, wherein:
the drive piston in a first position couples the drive module to the center chassis at a minimum distance between the drive module and the center chassis; and the drive piston in a second position couples the drive module to the center chassis at a maximum distance between the drive module and the center chassis, wherein the drive module is independently rotatable relative to the center chassis.
748. An inspection system, comprising
command value during the interrogating the inspection surface by the
inspection robot;
a universal connection port comprising:
a payload coupler having a first portion and a second portion, the first portion selectively couplable to a chassis of the inspection robot;
an arm having a first end and a second end, the first end coupled to the second portion of the payload coupler;
one or more sleds mounted to the second end of the arm;
at least two inspection sensors, wherein each of the at least two inspection sensors are mounted to a corresponding sled of the one or more sleds, and operationally couplable to the inspection surface, wherein the second portion of the payload coupler is moveable in relation to the first portion
an inspection data circuit structured to interpret inspection base provided by the at least two inspection sensors;
an inspection processing circuit structured to determine refined inspection data in response to the inspection base data;
an inspection configuration circuit structured to determine an inspection response value in response to the refined inspection data; and
an inspection response circuit structured to, in response to the inspection response value, provide an inspection.
749. An apparatus for, the apparatus comprising: an inspection circuit structured to command operations of an inspection robot operating on an inspection surface, and to interpret inspection data from a plurality of sensors operationally coupled to the inspection robot;
an inspection visualization circuit structured to generate an inspection map in response to the inspection data;
a mechanical payload connector structured to mechanically couple with a mechanical connection interface of the chassis of the inspection robot; and
a user interaction circuit structured to provide the inspection map to a user device, and to interpret a user focus value from the user device;
an action request circuit structured to determine an action for the inspection robot in response to the user focus value;
an event processing circuit structured to provide an action command value in response to the determined action; and
wherein the inspection circuit is further structured to update the operations of the inspection robot in response to the action command value.
750. An inspection robot comprising:
a chassis;
a first payload interface disposed on the chassis, the first payload interface comprising a coupling interface, the coupling interface structured to selectively couple to one of:
a first payload having a first inspection characteristic and a first plurality of sensors; or
a second payload having a second inspection characteristic and a second plurality of sensors;
an inspection circuit structured to command operations of the inspection robot operating on an inspection surface, and to interpret inspection data from the first plurality of sensors or the second plurality of sensors;
at least one connector selected from the connectors consisting of:
an inspection visualization circuit structured to generate an inspection map in response to the inspection data;
a user interaction circuit structured to provide the inspection map to a user device, and to interpret a user focus value from the user device;
an action request circuit structured to determine an action for the inspection robot in response to the user focus value;
an event processing circuit structured to provide an action command value in response to the determined action;
wherein the inspection robot further comprises at least one of: the first inspection characteristic distinct from the second inspection characteristic; or
the first plurality of sensors distinct from the second plurality of sensors, and wherein the inspection circuit is further structured to update the operations of the inspection robot in response to the action command value.
751. An apparatus for configuring an inspection robot for inspecting an inspection surface, the apparatus comprising:
an inspection chassis comprising a plurality of inspection sensors configured to interrogate an inspection surface;
a first drive module coupled to the inspection chassis, the first drive module comprising a first passive encoder wheel and a first non-contact sensor positioned in proximity to the first passive encoder wheel, wherein the first non-contact sensor provides a first movement value corresponding to the first passive encoder wheel;
a second drive module coupled to the inspection chassis, the second drive module comprising a second passive encoder wheel and a second non-contact sensor positioned in proximity to the second passive encoder wheel, wherein the second non-contact sensor provides a second movement value corresponding to the second passive encoder wheel; an inspection position circuit structured to determine a relative position of the inspection chassis in response to the first movement value and the second movement value; a route profile processing circuit structured to interpret route profile data for the inspection robot relative to the inspection surface;
a payload couplant connector structured to fluidly communicate with a couplant interface of the chassis of the inspection robot; a payload communication connector structured to electrically communicate with an electrical communication interface of the chassis of the inspection robot; and
a configuration determining circuit structured to determine one or more
configurations for the inspection robot in response to the route profile data; and
a configuration processing circuit structured to provide configuration data in response to the determined one or more configurations, the configuration data defining, in part, one or more inspection characteristics for the inspection robot.
752. An apparatus for configuring an inspection robot for inspecting an inspection surface, the apparatus comprising:
a route profile processing circuit structured to interpret route profile data for the inspection robot relative to the inspection surface; an inspection definition circuit structured to interpret an inspection description value; a configuration determining circuit structured to determine one or more
configurations for the inspection robot in response to the route profile data and the inspection description value;
a configuration processing circuit structured to provide configuration data in response to the determined one or more configurations, the configuration data defining, in part, one or more inspection characteristics for the inspection robot;
a configuration implementation circuit communicatively coupled to a configuration interface of an inspection robot, and structured to provide at least a portion of the inspection robot configuration description to the configuration interface.
753. A method for configuring an inspection robot for inspecting an inspection surface, the method comprising:
interpreting route profile data for the inspection robot relative to the
an electrical power connector structured to electrically communicate with an electrical power interface of the chassis of the inspection robot.
inspection surface;
interpreting an inspection description value;
determining an inspection robot configuration description in response to the inspection description value and the route profile data; and
communicating at least a portion of the inspection description value to at least one of a configuration interface of an inspection robot or an operator interface.
754. A system, comprising:
a robot body;
at least two sensors positioned to interrogate an uneven inspection surface, wherein the at least two sensors are communicatively coupled to the robot body;
a drive module comprising at least two wheels that engage the inspection surface, wherein the drive module is coupled to the robot body;
a stability assist device coupled to at least one of the robot body or the drive module; an actuator coupled to the stability assist device at a first end, and coupled to one of the drive module or the robot body at a second end, wherein the actuator is structured to selectively move the stability assist device between a first position and a second position,
an obstacle sensory data circuit structured to interpret obstacle sensory data comprising data provided by the obstacle sensor; an obstacle processing circuit structured to determine refined obstacle data in response to the obstacle sensory data;
74. A payload coupler for a payload of an inspection robot for inspecting an inspection surface, the payload coupler comprising:
an obstacle notification circuit structured to generate and provide obstacle notification data to a user interface device in response to the refined obstacle data;
a user interface circuit structured to interpret a user request value from the user interface device, and to determine an obstacle response command value in response to the user request value; and
an obstacle configuration circuit structured to provide the obstacle response command value to the inspection robot during the interrogating of the inspection surface.
755. A method of operating an inspection robot on a vertical inspection surface, the
method comprising:
interrogating the vertical inspection surface with an inspection robot having a stability assist device in a first position;
interpreting obstacle sensory data comprising data provided by the inspection robot interrogating the vertical inspection surface with one or more obstacle sensors;
determining refined obstacle data in response to the obstacle sensory data;
generating and providing obstacle notification data in response to the refined obstacle data;
determining a stability request value in response to the refined obstacle data; and moving the stability assist device to a second position in response to the stability request value.
a first portion selectively coupable to a chassis of the inspection robot;
756. An apparatus for performing an inspection on an inspection surface with an inspection robot, the apparatus comprising:
an inspection data circuit structured to interpret inspection data of the
inspection surface;
a robot positioning circuit structured to interpret position data of the inspection robot; a processed data circuit structured to link the inspection data with the position data to determine position-based inspection data;
an inspection visualization circuit structured to provide an inspection map to a user device in response to the inspection data and the position data, wherein the inspection map corresponds to at least a portion of the inspection surface; a user interaction circuit structured to interpret, from a user device, an inspection visualization request for an inspection map, or a user focus value;
an action request circuit structured to determine an action in response to the user focus value or the inspection visualization request;
wherein the inspection visualization circuit is further structured to update the inspection map in response to the determined action.
757. An apparatus for tracking inspection data, comprising
an inspection chassis comprising a plurality of inspection sensors configured to interrogate an inspection surface;
an inspection data circuit structured to interpret inspection data from the plurality of inspection sensors;
a second portion coupable to an arm of the payload; and
a first drive module coupled to the inspection chassis, the first drive module comprising a first passive encoder wheel and a first non-contact sensor positioned in proximity to the first passive encoder wheel, wherein the first non-contact sensor provides a first movement value corresponding to the first passive encoder wheel;
a second drive module coupled to the inspection chassis, the second drive module comprising a second passive encoder wheel and a second non-contact sensor positioned in proximity to the second passive encoder wheel, wherein the second non-contact sensor provides a second movement value corresponding to the second passive encoder wheel; an inspection position circuit structured to determine a relative position of the inspection chassis in response to the first movement value and the second movement value. a user interaction circuit structured to interpret an inspection visualization request for an inspection map;
a processed data circuit structured to link the inspection data with the position data to determine position-based inspection data;
an inspection visualization circuit structured to determine the inspection map in response to the inspection visualization request based on the position-based inspection data; and
a provisioning circuit structured to provide the inspection map to a user device.
758. A method for performing an inspection on an inspection surface with an inspection robot, the method comprising: interpreting inspection data of the inspection surface;
identifying an initial position of the robot;
providing a first movement value of a first encoder wheel for a first drive module; providing a second movement value of a second encoder wheel for a second drive module;
calculating a passive position change value for the robot in response to the first and second movement values;
determining a current position of the robot in response to the position change value and a previous position of the robot;
a universal connection port disposed on the first portion and comprising: a mechanical payload connector structured to mechanically couple with a mechanical connection interface of the chassis of the inspection robot.
updating position data for the robot;
interpreting an inspection visualization request for an inspection map;
linking the inspection data with the position data to determine position-based inspection data;
in response to the inspection visualization request, determining the inspection map based on the position-based inspection data; and
providing the inspection map via a provisioning circuit.
759. An apparatus, comprising:
a controller, comprising:
an inspection data circuit structured to interpret inspection base data comprising data provided by an inspection robot interrogating an inspection surface with a plurality of inspection sensors;
a robot positioning circuit structured to interpret position data of the inspection robot; an inspection processing circuit structured to determine refined inspection data in response to the inspection base data;
an inspection data validation circuit structured to determine an inspection data validity value in response to the refined inspection data and the position data;
75. The payload coupler of claim 74, wherein the universal connection port further comprises:
a user communication circuit structured to provide a data validity description to a user device in response to the inspection data validity value;
a user interaction circuit structured interpret an inspection visualization request from the user device for an inspection map; and
an inspection visualization circuit structured to determine the inspection map in response to the inspection visualization request.
760. An apparatus for providing an interactive inspection map of an inspection
surface inspected by an inspection robot, the apparatus comprising:
an inspection circuit structured to command operations of an inspection robot operating on an inspection surface, and to interpret inspection data from a plurality of sensors operationally coupled to the inspection robot;
an inspection visualization circuit structured to provide an inspection map to a user device in response to the inspection data, wherein the inspection map corresponds to at least a portion of the inspection surface;
a user interaction circuit structured to interpret a user focus value from the user device;
an action request circuit structured to determine an action in response to the user focus value, wherein the inspection visualization circuit is further structured to update the inspection map in response to the determined action;
an event processing circuit structured to provide an action command value in response to the determined action; and
a payload couplant connector structured to fluidly communicate with a couplant interface of the chassis of the inspection robot.
wherein the inspection circuit is further structured to update the commanded operations of the inspection robot in response to the action command value.
761. A method for providing an interactive inspection map of an inspection surface inspected by an inspection robot, the method comprising:
generating an inspection map in response to inspection data;
providing the inspection map to a user device;
interpreting a user focus value;
determining an action in response to the user focus value;
providing an action command value in response to the determined action
updating the inspection map in response to the action command value, the inspection map including positioned-based inspection data of the inspection surface; and
providing the updated inspection map.
762. An apparatus, comprising: an inspection circuit structured to command operations of an inspection robot operating on an inspection surface, and to interpret inspection data from a plurality of sensors operationally coupled to the inspection robot;
76. The payload coupler of claim 74, wherein the universal connection port further comprises:
an inspection visualization circuit structured to generate an inspection map in response to the inspection data;
a user interaction circuit structured to provide the inspection map to a user device, and to interpret a user focus value from the user device;
an inspection definition circuit structured to interpret an inspection description value in response to the user focus value;
a robot configuration circuit structured to determine an inspection robot configuration description in response to the inspection description value; and
a configuration implementation circuit communicatively coupled to a configuration interface of an inspection robot, and structured to provide at least a portion of the inspection robot configuration description to the configuration interface.
763. The apparatus of claim 762, further comprising:
an action request circuit structured to determine an action for the inspection robot in response to the user focus value;
an event processing circuit structured to provide an action command value in response to the determined action; and
wherein the inspection circuit is further structured to update the operations of the inspection robot in response to the action command value.
764. An apparatus for, the apparatus comprising:
a payload communication connector structured to electrically communicate with an electrical communication interface of the chassis of the inspection robot.
an inspection circuit structured to command operations of an inspection robot operating on an inspection surface, and to interpret inspection base data from a plurality of sensors operationally coupled to the inspection robot;
an inspection processing circuit structured to determine refined inspection data in response to the inspection base data; and
an inspection visualization circuit structured to generate an inspection map in response to the inspection data;
a user interaction circuit structured to provide the inspection map to a user device, and to interpret a user focus value from the user device; an inspection configuration circuit structured to determine an inspection response value in response to the user focus value; and
an inspection response circuit structured to, in response to the inspection response value, provide an inspection command value during the interrogating the inspection surface by the inspection robot; and
wherein the inspection circuit is further structured to update the operations in response to the inspection command value.
765. The apparatus of claim 764, further comprising:
an action request circuit structured to determine an action for the inspection robot in response to the user focus value;
an event processing circuit structured to provide an action command value in response to the determined action; and
wherein the inspection circuit is further structured to update the operations of the inspection robot in response to the action command value.
77. The payload coupler of claim 74, wherein the universal connection port further comprises:
766. An apparatus, comprising:
an inspection visualization circuit structured to provide an inspection map to a user device in response to inspection data provided by a plurality of sensors operationally coupled to an inspection robot operating on an inspection surface, wherein the inspection map corresponds to at least a portion of the inspection surface;
an inspection definition circuit structured to interpret an inspection description value in response to an input from the user device;
a robot configuration circuit structured to determine an inspection robot configuration description in response to the inspection description value; and
a configuration implementation circuit communicatively coupled to a configuration interface of an inspection robot, and structured to provide at least a portion of the inspection robot configuration description to the configuration interface.
767. The apparatus of claim 766, comprising:
an action request circuit structured to determine an action in response to the input form the user device; and
wherein the inspection visualization circuit is further structured to update the inspection map in response to the determined action.
768. A method, comprising:
assembling a magnetic wheel for a robot by performing operations comprising: providing a mount having a base and one or more retractable magnet support structures extending away from the base;
an electrical power connector structured to electrically communicate with an electrical power interfaceof the chassis of the inspection robot.
supporting a first wheel component with the base;
supporting a rare earth magnet with the one or more retractable magnet support structures at a first distance from the base; and
retracting the one or more retractable magnet support structures with respect to the base until the rare earth magnet reaches a second distance closer to the base than the first distance;
performing inspection operation on an inspection surface with an inspection robot including the magnetic wheel, wherein the inspection operation comprises:
identifying an initial position of the robot;
providing a first movement value of a first encoder wheel for a first drive module;
providing a second movement value of a second encoder wheel for a second drive module;
calculating a passive position change value for the robot in response to the first and second movement values; and
determining a current position of the robot in response to the position change value and a previous position of the robot.
769. A method, comprising:
78. A method of inspecting an inspection surface with an inspection robot, the method comprising:
assembling a magnetic wheel for a robot by performing operations comprising: providing a mount having a base and one or more retractable magnet support structures extending away from the base;
supporting a first wheel component with the base;
supporting a rare earth magnet with the one or more retractable magnet support structures at a first distance from the base;
retracting the one or more retractable magnet support structures with respect to the base until the rare earth magnet reaches a second distance closer to the base than the first distance; operating an electromagnetic motor to drive a magnetic wheel assembly, including the magnetic wheel, of an inspection robot;
measuring a rotational speed of the electromagnetic motor with an electromagnetic sensor operationally coupled to the electromagnetic motor; and
shielding the electromagnetic sensor from electromagnetic interference generated by the magnetic wheel assembly.
770. A modular drive assembly for an inspection robot, comprising:
a plurality of magnetic wheels, each magnetic wheel mounted to a body of a drive module, and having a contact surface below an inspection side of and inspection chassis of the inspection robot;
a motor;
a gear box operationally interposed between the motor and at least one of the plurality of magnetic wheels;
determining one or more surface characteristics of the inspection surface;
wherein the gear box comprises a flex spline cup structured to interact with a ring gear and wherein the ring gear has fewer teeth than the flex spline cup;
a connector comprising:
an electrical interface structured to electrically communicate with a control module of the inspection robot; and
a mechanical interface structured to releasably couple the body to the inspection chassis.
771. An inspection robot, comprising:
an inspection chassis comprising a plurality of inspection sensors configured to interrogate an inspection surface;
at least one drive module coupled to the inspection chassis structured to drive the inspection robot over the inspection surface, the at least one drive module comprising:
at least two wheels mounted to a body of the drive module; and a connector comprising:
an electrical interface structured to electrically communicate with a controller of the inspection robot; and
a mechanical interface structured to releasably couple the body to a chassis of the inspection robot;
determining at least two inspection sensors for inspecting the inspection surface in response to the determined surface characteristics, the at least two inspection sensors each mounted to a corresponding sled, the corresponding sleds coupled to an arm, the arm coupled to a second portion of a payload coupler; and
wherein the controller of the inspection robot comprises: an inspection data circuit structured to interpret inspection base data comprising data provided by the plurality of inspection sensors;
an inspection processing circuit structured to determine refined inspection data in response to the inspection base data; and
an inspection configuration circuit structured to determine an inspection response value in response to the refined inspection data; and
an inspection response circuit structured to, in response to the inspection response value, provide an inspection command value during the interrogating the inspection surface by the inspection robot.
772. An inspection robot, comprising:
an inspection chassis;
a drive module coupled to the inspection chassis, the drive module comprising:
a plurality of magnetic wheels, each magnetic wheel having a contact surface below an inspection side of the inspection chassis;
a motor;
a gear box operationally interposed between the motor and at least one of the plurality of magnetic wheels; and
selectively coupling a first portion of the payload coupler to a chassis of the inspection robot; and articulating the second portion of the payload coupler causing relative movement between the first portion of the payload coupler and the second portion of the payload coupler.
wherein the gear box comprises a flex spline cup structured to interact with a ring gear and wherein the ring gear has fewer teeth than the flex spline cup; and
a connector, comprising:
a body having a first end for coupling with the drive module and a second end for engaging the inspection chassis;
an electrical component structured to couple an electrical power source from the chassis to an electrical power load of the drive module, and further structured to provide electrical communication between a controller positioned on the chassis and at least one of a sensor, an actuator, or a drive controller positioned on the drive module; and
a mechanical component defined, at least in part, by the body and structured to selectively and releasably couple the body to the chassis.
773. An inspection robot, comprising:
a stability assist device motively coupled to the inspection robot; an actuator moveably coupled to the stability assist device and the inspection robot, wherein the actuator is structured to selectively move the stability assist device between a first position and a second deployed position
a center chassis;
at least one payload, each payload pivotally mounted to the center chassis, and each payload operationally coupled to at least two inspection sensors;
at least two drive suspensions, each of the drive suspensions pivotally coupling the center chassis to a corresponding drive module; and
79. The method of claim 78, wherein selectively coupling the first portion of the payload coupler to a chassis of the inspection robot comprises:
wherein each of the corresponding drive modules comprises a magnetic wheel, and is independently rotatable.
774. An inspection robot, comprising:
a plurality of sensors positioned to interrogate the inspection surface;
a stability assist device motively coupled to the inspection robot;
an actuator moveably coupled to the stability assist device and a drive module, wherein the actuator is structured to selectively move the stability assist device between a first position and a second deployed position;
an inspection chassis;
the drive module coupled to the inspection chassis, the drive module comprising: a plurality of magnetic wheels, each magnetic wheel having a contact surface below an inspection side of the inspection chassis;
a motor;
a gear box operationally interposed between the motor and at least one of the plurality of magnetic wheels; and
wherein the gear box comprises a flex spline cup structured to interact with a ring gear and wherein the ring gear has fewer teeth than the flex spline cup.
mechanically coupling a mechanical payload connector of a universal connection port, disposed on the first portion, to a mechanical connection interface of the chassis of the inspection robot; and
775. A controller, comprising:
an inspection data circuit structured to interpret inspection base data comprising data provided by an inspection robot interrogating an inspection surface with a plurality of inspection sensors;
an inspection processing circuit structured to determine refined inspection data in response to the inspection base data; a robot configuration circuit structured to determine an inspection robot configuration description in response to the refined inspection data; and
a configuration implementation circuit communicatively coupled to a configuration interface of an inspection robot, and structured to provide an inspection command value to the configuration interface of the inspection robot in response to the robot configuration description during the interrogating the inspection surface by the inspection robot.
fluidly coupling a payload couplant connector of the universal connection port to a couplant interface of the chassis.
80. The method of claim 78, wherein selectively coupling a second portion of the payload coupler to a chassis of the inspection robot comprises:
mechanically coupling a mechanical payload connector of a universal connection port, disposed on the second portion, to a mechanical connection interface of the chassis of the inspection robot; and
electrically coupling an payload communication connector of the universal connection port to an electrical communication interface of the chassis.
81. The method of claim 78, wherein selectively coupling the first portion of the payload coupler to a chassis of the inspection robot comprises:
mechanically coupling a mechanical payload connector of a universal connection port, disposed on the first portion, to a mechanical connection interface of the chassis of the inspection robot; and
electrically coupling an electrical power connector of the universal connection port to an electrical power interface of the chassis.
82. The method of claim 78, wherein selectively coupling the first portion of the payload coupler to a chassis of the inspection robot comprises:
mechanically coupling a mechanical payload connector of a universal connection port, disposed on the first portion, to a mechanical connection interface of the chassis of the inspection robot;
fluidly coupling a payload couplant connector of the universal connection port to a couplant interface of the chassis;
electrically coupling an payload communication connector of the universal connection port to an electrical communication interface of the chassis; and electrically coupling an electrical power connector of the universal connection port to an electrical power interface of the chassis.
83. The method of claim 78 further comprising:
rotating the second portion of the payload coupler in relation to the first portion.
84. The method of claim 78 further comprising:
rotating the arm in relation to the payload coupler.
85. The method of claim 78 further comprising:
rotating at least one of the corresponding sleds in relation to the arm.
86. The method of claim 78 further comprising:
applying a downward biasing force to the at least two inspection sensors with respect to the inspection surface via a downward biasing force device.
87. The method of claim 86, wherein the downward biasing force device is disposed on the chassis of the inspection robot and applies a rotational force to the payload coupler.
88. The method of claim 78 further comprising:
horizontally translating the at least two inspection sensors with respect to the chassis of the inspection robot.
89. A method, comprising:
inspecting an inspection surface using a first payload, wherein the first payload is coupled to a robot chassis;
decoupling the first payload from the robot chassis,
selectively coupling a second payload to the robot chassis;
wherein the first payload has a first inspection characteristic and the second payload has a second inspection characteristic, the second inspection characteristic distinct from the first inspection characteristic.
90. The method of claim 89, further comprising inspecting the inspection surface using the second payload.
91. The method of claim 89, wherein both the first payload and the second payload each comprise one or more inspection sensors, and wherein the inspection characteristic distinction is a difference between a configuration of the one or more inspection sensors of the first payload and a configuration of the one or more inspection sensors of the second payload.
92. The method of claim 91, wherein the difference between the configuration of the first payload and the configuration of the second payload is a difference in a type of inspection sensor of the first payload and a type of inspection sensor of the second payload, and wherein each of the inspection sensors of the first payload and the second payload comprise a type selected from the inspection sensor types consisting of:
acoustic;
ultrasonic;
electromagnetic induction (EMI);
photonic;
infrared;
ultraviolet;
electromagnetic radiation;
camera; and
and
optical.
93. The method of claim 91 , wherein both the first payload and the second payload each comprise two or more inspection sensors, and wherein the difference in the configuration of the first payload and the second payload is a difference in spacing between the inspection sensors on the first payload and the inspection sensors on the second payload.
94. The method of claim 93,
wherein the inspection sensors are each mounted to one of at least two sleds of a corresponding one of the first payload or the second payload, and wherein the difference of spacing is defined at least in part on a difference in a spacing of the at least two sleds of the first payload and a spacing of the at least two sleds of the second payload.
95. The method of claim 91, wherein the difference in the configuration of the first payload and the second payload is a difference between a downward force applied by a first biasing member of the first payload to at least one inspection sensor of the first payload and a downward force applied by a second biasing member of the second payload to at least one inspection sensor of the second payload.
9; . The method of claim 95, wherein the downward force applied by the second biasing member is distinct from the downward force applied by the first biasing member.
97. The method of claim 96, wherein the distinction in downward force applied by the first biasing member and the second biasing member is at least one of a magnitude, an angle, or a direction.
98. The method of claim 91, further comprising:
applying a first directional force on the first payload,
applying a second directional force on the second payload, and
wherein, in response to the difference in configuration between the first payload and the second payload, the first directional force is distinct from the second directional force.
99. The method of claim 98, wherein the distinction between the first directional force and the second directional force comprises a difference in a magnitude, an angle relative to the inspection surface, and a direction.
100. An inspection robot comprising:
a chassis;
a first payload interface disposed on the chassis, the first payload interface comprising a coupling interface, the coupling interface structured to selectively couple to one of:
a first payload having a first inspection characteristic and a first plurality of sensors; or
a second payload having a second inspection characteristic and a second plurality of sensors;
wherein the inspection robot further comprises at least one of:
the first inspection characteristic distinct from the second inspection characteristic; or the first plurality of sensors distinct from the second plurality of sensors.
101. The inspection robot of claim 100, wherein each of the first and second payloads comprise:
a body;
at least two arms mounted to the body, each of the at least two arms operatively coupled at least one sled; and
at least one inspection sensor coupled to each sled, each inspection sensor operationally couplable to an inspection surface.
102. The inspection robot of claim 101, wherein at least one of the first payload and the second payload further comprises a couplant conduit couplable to the coupling interface.
103. The inspection robot of claim 101, wherein the distinction between the first inspection characteristic and the second inspection characteristic is a difference between a configuration of the inspection sensors of the first payload and a configuration of the inspection sensors of the second payload.
104. The inspection robot of claim 103, wherein the distinction between the first plurality of sensors and the second plurality of sensors comprises a difference between a type of the plurality of inspection sensors, wherein each inspection sensor is comprises at least one type selected from the sensor types consisting of: an ultrasonic sensor; an electromagnetic induction (EMI) sensor; a photonic sensor; an infrared sensor; an ultraviolet sensor; an electromagnetic radiation sensor; a camera; or an optical sensor.
105. The inspection robot of claim 103, wherein the distinction between the first inspection characteristic and the second inspection characteristic is a spacing between the inspection sensors of the first payload and the inspection sensors of the second payload
106. The inspection robot of claim 105, wherein the difference of spacing is defined at least in part on a difference in a spacing of the at least two arms of the first payload and a spacing of the at least two arms of the second payload.
107. The inspection robot of claim 105, wherein the difference of spacing is defined at least in part on a difference in a first number of inspection sensors on a sled of the first payload and a second number of inspection sensors on a sled of the second payload.
108. The inspection robot of claim 103, wherein the distinction between the first inspection characteristic and the second inspection characteristic comprises at least one distinction selected from a difference in : a sensor interface, a sled ramp slope, a sled ramp height, a sled pivot location, an arm pivot location, a sled pivot range of motion, an arm pivot range of motion, a sled pivot orientation, an arm pivot orientation, a sled width, a sled bottom surface configuration, a couplant chamber configuration, a couplant chamber side, a couplant chamber routing, or a couplant chamber orientation.
109. The inspection robot of claim 101, wherein:
the first payload comprises a first biasing member;
the second payload comprises a second biasing member; and
wherein the distinction between the first inspection characteristic and the second inspection characteristic is a difference between a downward force applied by the first biasing member to at least one inspection sensor of the first payload and a downward force applied by the second biasing member to at least one inspection sensor of the second payload.
110. The inspection robot of claim 109, wherein the downward force applied by the second downward biasing member is distinct from the downward force applied by the first downward biasing member.
111. The inspection robot of claim 109, wherein the distinction between the downward force applied by the first downward biasing member from the force applied by the second downward biasing member is at least one of a magnitude, an angle, or a direction.
112. The inspection robot of claim 110, wherein the second biasing member comprises at least one of an active biasing member or a passive biasing member.
113. The inspection robot of claim 112, wherein the second biasing member is an active biasing member, the second biasing member motively coupled to an actuator, wherein a motive force of the actuator comprises an electromagnetic force, a pneumatic force, or a hydraulic force.
114. The inspection robot of claim 112, wherein the second biasing member is a passive biasing member comprising a spring or a permanent magnet.
115. The inspection robot of claim 101, wherein the distinction between the first inspection characteristic and the second inspection characteristic is a configuration of at least one sled of the first payload and at least one sled of the second payload.
116. The inspection robot of claim 115, wherein the distinction between the first plurality of sensors and the second plurality of sensors comprises at least one difference selected from: a type of sensor between the at least one sled of the first and second payload, or a number of sensors per sled on the at least one sled of the first and second payload.
117. The inspection robot of claim 104 further comprising:
a second payload interface disposed on a side of the chassis opposite a side of the chassis on which the first payload interface is disposed and structured to secure the second payload to the chassis;
wherein the distinction is a difference in a mounting position of the first payload on the chassis and a mounting position of the second payload on the chassis.
118. A system comprising:
a payload coupling interface,
a first payload having a first inspection characteristic, the first payload selectively mountable to a chassis of an inspection robot for inspecting an inspection surface using the payload coupling interface; and
a second payload having a second inspection characteristic distinct from the first inspection characteristic, the second payload selectively mountable to the chassis using the payload coupling interface;
wherein the first and the second payloads each comprise: a body;
at least two arms mounted to the body;
at least two sleds, each mounted to one of the at least two arms; and
a plurality of inspection sensors each coupled to one of the sleds and operationally couplable to an inspection surface.
119. The system of claim 118, further comprising:
a tether comprising :
an electrical power conduit operative to provide electrical power; and
a working fluid conduit operative to provide a working fluid to the chassis of the inspection robot,
wherein the working fluid is provided to the payload coupling interface from the chassis of the inspection robot.
120. The system of claim 119, wherein the working fluid is a couplant and the working fluid conduit is structured to fluidly communicate with at least one sled to provide for couplant communication via the couplant between an inspection sensor mounted to the at least one sled and the inspection surface.
121. An apparatus for configuring an inspection robot for inspecting an inspection surface, the apparatus comprising:
a route profile processing circuit structured to interpret route profile data for the inspection robot relative to the inspection surface;
a configuration determining circuit structured to determine one or more
configurations for the inspection robot in response to the route profile data; and
a configuration processing circuit structured to provide configuration data in response to the determined one or more configurations, the configuration data defining, in part, one or more inspection characteristics for the inspection robot.
122. The apparatus of claim 121, wherein the one or more inspection characteristics include at least one inspection characteristic selected from the inspection characteristics consisting of:
a type of inspection sensor for the inspection robot;
a horizontal spacing between adjacent inspection sensors for the inspection robot; a horizontal spacing between inspection lanes for an inspection operation of the inspection robot;
a magnitude of a downward force applied to a sled housing an inspection sensor of the inspection robot; a sled geometry for a sled housing an inspection sensor of the inspection robot; a tether configuration description for the inspection robot;
a payload configuration for a payload of the inspection robot; a drive wheel configuration for the inspection robot; and
a type of a downward force biasing device for the inspection robot structured to apply a downward force on an inspection sensor of the inspection robot.
123. The apparatus of claim 121, further comprising:
a robot configuring circuit structured to configure the inspection robot in response to the provided configuration data.
124. The apparatus of claim 123, wherein the robot configuring circuit is further structured to configure the inspection robot by performing at least one operation selected from the operations consisting of:
configuring a horizontal spacing between inspection lanes for an inspection operation of the inspection robot;
configuring at least one of an inspection route and a horizontal spacing between adjacent inspection sensors, thereby performing an inspection operation compliant with an on-surface inspected resolution target; or
configuring a downward force biasing device to apply a selected down force to a sled housing an inspection sensor of the inspection robot.
125. The apparatus of claim 121, wherein the configuration determining circuit is further structured to determine:
a first configuration of the one or more configurations for a first portion of the inspection surface; and
a second configuration of the one or more configurations distinct for a second portion of the inspection surface, wherein the second configuration is distinct from the first configuration.
126. The apparatus of claim 121, wherein:
the route profile processing circuit is further structured to interpret updated route profile data during an inspection operation of the inspection surface by the inspection robot; the configuration determining circuit is further structured to determine one or more updated configurations of the inspection robot in response to the updated route profile data; and the configuration processing circuit is further structured to provide updated configuration data in response to the determined updated one or more configurations.
127. The apparatus of claim 126, further comprising a robot configuring circuit structured to re-configure the inspection robot in response to the updated one or more configurations.
128. The apparatus of claim 121, wherein the route profile data comprises:
obstacle data.
129. A method for configuring an inspection robot for inspecting an inspection surface, the method comprising:
interpreting route profile data for the inspection robot relative to the inspection surface;
determining one or more configurations for the inspection robot in response to the route profile data; and
providing configuration data in response to the determined one or more configurations, the configuration data defining, at least in part, one or more inspection characteristics for the inspection robot.
130. The method of claim 129, wherein the one or more inspection characteristics include at least one inspection characteristic selected from the inspection characteristics consisting of:
a type of inspection sensor for the inspection robot;
a horizontal spacing between adjacent inspection sensors for the inspection robot; a horizontal spacing between inspection lanes for an inspection operation of the inspection robot;
a magnitude of a downward force applied to a sled housing an inspection sensor of the inspection robot;
a sled geometry for a sled housing an inspection sensor of the inspection robot;
a tether configuration description for the inspection robot;
a payload configuration for a payload of the inspection robot; a drive wheel configuration for the inspection robot; and
a type of a downward force biasing device for the inspection robot structured to apply a downward force to a sled housing an inspection sensor of the inspection robot.
131. The method of claim 129, wherein providing the configuration data comprises communicating the configuration data to a user device, wherein the user device is positioned at a distinct location from a location of the inspection surface.
132. The method of claim 131, wherein communicating the configuration data to the user device is performed before transporting the inspection robot to location of the inspection surface.
133. The method of claim 129, wherein determining one or more configurations for the inspection robot is performed during an inspection operation of the inspection robot of the inspection surface.
134. The method of claim 133, further comprising adjusting a configuration of the inspection robot in response to the determined one or more configurations for the inspection robot during the inspection operation of the inspection robot.
135. The method of claim 134, wherein adjusting the configuration of the inspection robot comprises at least one operation selected from the operations consisting of:
configuring a horizontal spacing between inspection lanes for an inspection operation of the inspection robot;
configuring at least one of an inspection route and a horizontal spacing between adjacent inspection sensors, thereby performing an inspection operation compliant with an on-surface inspected resolution target; or
configuring a downward force biasing device to apply a selected down force to a sled housing an inspection sensor of the inspection robot.
136. The method of claim 129, further comprising mounting an inspection sensor to the inspection robot in response to the provided configuration data.
137. The method of claim 129, further comprising mounting a drive module to the inspection robot in response to the provided configuration data.
138. The method of claim 129, further comprising adjusting an inspection sensor disposed on the inspection robot in response to the provided configuration data.
139. The method of claim 129, wherein determining one or more configurations for the inspection robot in response to the route profile data comprises:
determining a first configuration of the one or more configurations for a first portion of the inspection surface; and
determining a second configuration of the one or more configurations for a second portion of the inspection surface, wherein the second configuration is distinct from the first configuration.
140. A system comprising: an inspection robot comprising a payload comprising at least two inspection sensors coupled thereto; and
a controller comprising:
a route profile processing circuit structured to interpret route profile data for the inspection robot relative to an inspection surface;
a configuration determining circuit structured to determine one or more
configurations for the inspection robot in response to the route profile data; and
a configuration processing circuit structured to provide configuration data in response to the determined one or more configurations, the configuration data defining, at least in part, one or more inspection characteristics for the inspection robot.
141. The system of claim 140, wherein the one or more inspection characteristics include a type of inspection sensor for the inspection robot.
142. The system of claim 140, wherein the one or more inspection characteristics include a horizontal spacing between adjacent inspection sensors for the inspection robot.
143. The system of claim 142, wherein the payload comprises an adjustable sled coupling position for at least two sleds, each of the at least two sleds housing at least one of the at least two inspection sensors.
144. The system of claim 142, wherein the payload comprises an adjustable arm coupling position for at least two arms, each of the at least two arms associated with at least one of the at least two inspection sensors.
145. The system of claim 144, wherein each of the at least two arms further comprises at least one sled coupled thereto, each of the at least one sled housing at least one of the at least two inspection sensors.
146. The system of claim 140, wherein the one or more inspection characteristics include a horizontal spacing between inspection lanes for an inspection operation of the inspection robot.
147. The system of claim 140, wherein the one or more inspection characteristics include a magnitude of a downward force applied to a sled housing at least one of the at least two inspection sensors.
148. The system of claim 140, wherein the one or more inspection characteristics include a sled geometry for a sled housing at least one of the at least two inspection sensors.
149. The system of claim 140, wherein the one or more inspection characteristics include a tether configuration description for the inspection robot, the system further comprising a tether structured to couple a power source and a couplant source to the inspection robot.
150. The system of claim 140, wherein the one or more inspection characteristics include a payload configuration for the payload of the inspection robot;
151. The system of claim 140, wherein the one or more inspection characteristics include a drive wheel configuration for the inspection robot.
152. The system of claim 140, wherein the one or more inspection characteristics include a type of a downward force biasing device for the inspection robot structured to apply a downward force to a sled housing at least one of the at least two inspection sensors of the inspection robot.
153. The system of claim 140 further comprising:
a robot configuring circuit structured to configure the inspection robot in response to the provided configuration data.
154. The system of claim 153, wherein the robot configuring circuit is further structured to configure the inspection robot by performing at least one operation selected from the operations consisting of:
configuring a horizontal spacing between inspection lanes for an inspection operation of the inspection robot;
configuring at least one of an inspection route and a horizontal spacing between adjacent inspection sensors, thereby performing an inspection operation compliant with an on-surface inspected resolution target; or
configuring a downward force biasing device to apply a selected down force to a sled housing at least one of the at least two inspection sensors of the inspection robot.
155. The system of claim 140, wherein the configuration determining circuit is further structured to determine:
a first configuration of the one or more configurations for a first portion of the inspection surface; and
a second configuration of the one or more configurations distinct for a second portion of the inspection surface, wherein the second configuration is distinct from the first configuration.
156. The system of claim 140, wherein:
the route profile processing circuit is further structured to interpret updated route profile data during an inspection operation of the inspection surface by the inspection robot; the configuration determining circuit is further structured to determine one or more updated configurations of the inspection robot in response to the updated route profile data; and
the configuration processing circuit is further structured to provide updated configuration data in response to the determined updated one or more configurations.
157. The system of claim 156, further comprising a robot configuring circuit structured to re-configure the inspection robot in response to the updated one or more configurations.
158. The system of claim 140, wherein the route profile data comprises:
obstacle data.
159. A system, comprising:
an inspection robot comprising an obstacle sensor, the inspection robot configured to interrogate an inspection surface with the obstacle sensor;
an obstacle sensory data circuit structured to interpret obstacle sensory data comprising data provided by the obstacle sensor;
an obstacle processing circuit structured to determine refined obstacle data in response to the obstacle sensory data;
an obstacle notification circuit structured to generate and provide obstacle notification data to a user interface device in response to the refined obstacle data;
a user interface circuit structured to interpret a user request value from the user interface device, and to determine an obstacle response command value in response to the user request value; and
an obstacle configuration circuit structured to provide the obstacle response command value to the inspection robot during the interrogating of the inspection surface.
160. The system of claim 159, wherein the obstacle configuration circuit is further structured to:
determine, based at least in part on the refined obstacle data, whether the inspection robot has traversed an obstacle in response to execution of a command corresponding to the obstacle response command value by the inspection robot; and
provide an obstacle alarm data value in response to determining that the inspection robot has not traversed the obstacle.
161. The system of claim 159, wherein the obstacle sensor comprises an optical camera.
162. The system of claim 161, wherein the obstacle processing circuit is further structured to determine the refined obstacle data as indicating the potential presence of an obstacle in response to comparing the obstacle data comprising an inspection surface depiction to a nominal inspection surface depiction.
163. The system of claim 162, wherein the obstacle processing circuit is further structured to determine the refined obstacle data as indicating the potential presence of an obstacle in response to comparing the obstacle data comprising an inspection surface depiction to a predetermined obstacle inspection surface depiction.
164. The system of claim 161, wherein the obstacle notification circuit is further structured to provide the obstacle notification data as at least one of an operator alert communication or an inspection surface depiction of at least a portion of the inspection surface.
165. The system of claim 159, wherein the obstacle sensor comprises a ferrous substrate detection sensor.
166. The system of claim 159, wherein the obstacle processing circuit is further structured to determine the refined obstacle data as indicating a potential presence of an obstacle in response to determining at least one of: a non-ferrous substrate detection of a portion of the inspection surface, or a reduced magnetic interface detection of a portion of the inspection surface.
167. The system of claim 159, wherein the obstacle notification circuit is further structured to provide a stop command to the inspection robot in response to the refined obstacle data indicating the potential presence of an obstacle.
168. The system of claim 159, wherein the obstacle sensor comprises a contact sensor.
169. A controller, comprising:
an obstacle sensory data circuit structured to interpret obstacle sensory data comprising data provided an obstacle sensor of an inspection robot;
an obstacle processing circuit structured to determine refined obstacle data in response to the obstacle sensory data; and
an obstacle notification circuit structured to identify one of an obstacle or a potential obstacle, and to provide obstacle notification data in response to the refined obstacle data.
170. The controller of claim 169, further comprising: a user interface circuit structured to provide the obstacle notification data to a user interface device.
171. The controller of claim 170, further comprising:
wherein the user interface circuit is further structured to interpret a user request value from the user interface device, and to determine an obstacle response command value in response to the user request value; and
an obstacle configuration circuit structured to provide the obstacle response command value to the inspection robot during the interrogating of the inspection surface.
172. The controller of claim 171, wherein the obstacle response command value comprises a command to reconfigure an active obstacle avoidance system of the inspection robot.
173. The controller of claim 172, wherein the command to reconfigure to an active obstacle avoidance system of the inspection robot comprises a command to perform at least one action selected from a list of reconfiguration actions consisting of:
reconfiguring a down force applied to one or more payloads coupled to the inspection robot;
repositioning a payload coupled to the inspection robot;
lifting a payload coupled to the inspection robot;
locking a pivot of a sled, the sled housing an inspection sensor of the inspection robot; unlocking a pivot of a sled, the sled housing an inspection sensor of the inspection robot;
locking a pivot of an arm, the arm coupled to a payload of the inspection robot, and an inspection sensor coupled to the arm;
unlocking a pivot of an arm, the arm coupled to a payload of the inspection robot, and an inspection sensor coupled to the arm;
rotating a chassis of the inspection robot relative to a drive module of the inspection robot;
rotating a drive module of the inspection robot relative to a chassis of the inspection robot;
deploying a stability assist device coupled to the inspection robot;
reconfiguring one or more payloads coupled to the inspection robot; and adjusting a couplant flow rate of the inspection robot.
174. The controller of claim 172, wherein the obstacle configuration circuit is further structured to:
determine, based at least in part on the refined obstacle data, whether the inspection robot has traversed an obstacle in response to execution of the obstacle response command value by the inspection robot; and
provide an obstacle alarm data value in response to determining that the inspection robot has not traversed the obstacle.
175. The controller of claim 169, further comprising a user interface circuit structured to provide the obstacle alarm data value to a user interface device.
176. The controller of claim 174, wherein the obstacle alarm data value comprises imaging data from an optical camera of the inspection robot, wherein the imaging data is related to at least one of: the obstacle, a position of the obstacle, a height of the obstacle, an inspection surface surrounding the obstacle, a horizontal extent of the obstacle, a vertical extent of the obstacle, or a slope of the obstacle.
177. The controller of claim 169, further comprising a user interface circuit structured to provide an obstacle alarm data value to a user interface in response to the refined obstacle data and the obstacle notification data.
178. The controller of claim 169, further comprising:
an obstacle configuration circuit structured to:
determine an obstacle response command value in response to the obstacle notification data; and
provide the obstacle response command value to the inspection robot during an inspection operation of the inspection surface, wherein the obstacle response command value comprises:
a command to adjust the inspection operation of the inspection robot.
179. The controller of claim 178, wherein the command to adjust an inspection operation of the inspection robot comprises a command to perform an adjustment selected from the adjustments consisting of:
stopping the inspection operation;
taking data in response to the obstacle;
applying a virtual mark in response to the obstacle;
updating an obstacle map for the inspection surface;
confirming an obstacle map for the inspection surface; acquiring an image or video related to the obstacle; and
updating of an inspection run plan.
180. A method, comprising:
interpreting obstacle sensory data comprising data provided by an inspection robot interrogating an inspection surface with one or more obstacle sensors;
determining refined obstacle data in response to the obstacle sensory data; and generating and providing obstacle notification data in response to the refined obstacle data.
181. The method of claim 180, further comprising:
providing the notification obstacle notification data to a user interface.
182. The method of claim 181, further comprising:
interpreting a user request value from the user interface;
determining an obstacle response command value in response to the user request value; and
providing the obstacle response command value to the inspection robot during the interrogating of the inspection surface.
183. The method of claim 182, further comprising:
adjusting an inspection operation of the inspection robot in response to the obstacle response command value.
184. The method of claim 183, wherein adjusting an inspection operation of the inspection robot comprises at least one procedure selected from the procedures consisting of:
stopping the interrogating of the inspection surface; and
updating of an inspection run plan.
185. The method of claim 182, further comprising:
reconfiguring an active obstacle avoidance system of the inspection robot in response to the obstacle response command value.
186. The method of claim 185, wherein reconfiguring an active obstacle avoidance system of the inspection robot comprises at least one procedure selected from the procedures consisting of:
reconfiguring a down force applied to one or more payloads coupled to the inspection robot;
reconfiguring a width of one or more payloads coupled to the inspection robot; and
reconfiguring a couplant flow rate of the inspection robot.
187. The method of claim 182, further comprising:
determining whether the inspection robot traversed an obstacle in response to execution of the obstacle response command value by the inspection robot; and
providing an obstacle alarm data value in response to determining the inspection robot has not traversed the obstacle.
188. An apparatus for performing an inspection on an inspection surface with an inspection robot, the apparatus comprising:
an inspection data circuit structured to interpret inspection data of the inspection surface;
a robot positioning circuit structured to interpret position data of the inspection robot; a user interaction circuit structured to interpret an inspection visualization request for an inspection map;
a processed data circuit structured to link the inspection data with the position data to determine position-based inspection data;
an inspection visualization circuit structured to determine the inspection map in response to the inspection visualization request based on the position-based inspection data; and
a provisioning circuit structured to provide the inspection map to a user device.
189. The apparatus of claim 188, wherein the inspection map includes a layout of the inspection surface based on the position-based inspection data.
190. The apparatus of claim 189, wherein the layout is in real space.
191. The apparatus of claim 189, wherein the layout is in virtual space.
192. The apparatus of claim 188, wherein the inspection map includes at least two features of the inspection surface and corresponding locations on the inspection surface, each of the at least two features selected from a list consisting of:
an obstacle;
a surface build up;
a weld line;
a gouge; or
a repaired section.
193. The apparatus of claim 188, wherein the inspection data comprises an inspection dimension selected from a list consisting of:
a temperature of the inspection surface;
a coating type of the inspection surface; a color of the inspection surface;
a smoothness of the inspection surface;
an obstacle density of the inspection surface;
a radius of curvature of the inspection surface; or
a thickness of the inspection surface.
194. The apparatus of claim 193, wherein the inspection map includes a visualization property for the inspection dimension, the visualization property comprising a property selected from a list of properties consisting of:
numeric values;
shading values;
transparency;
a tool-tip indicator;
color values; or
hatching values.
195. The apparatus of claim 188, wherein the position data comprises an azimuthal indicator and a height indicator, and wherein the inspection map includes visualization properties for the azimuthal indicator or the height indicator.
196. A method for performing an inspection on an inspection surface with an inspection robot, the method comprising:
interpreting inspection data of the inspection surface;
interpreting position data of the inspection robot;
interpreting an inspection visualization request for an inspection map;
linking the inspection data with the position data to determine position-based inspection data;
in response to the inspection visualization request, determining the inspection map based on the position-based inspection data; and
providing the inspection map via a provisioning circuit.
197. The method of claim 196, wherein the inspection map includes a layout of the inspection surface, and wherein the layout is in real space or virtual space.
198. The method of claim 196, wherein determining the inspection map based on the position-based inspection data comprises labeling each inspection dimension of the inspection data, wherein each inspection dimension comprise an attribute selected from a list of attributes consisting of: a temperature of the inspection surface;
a coating type of the inspection surface;
a color of the inspection surface;
a smoothness of the inspection surface;
an obstacle density of the inspection surface;
a radius of curvature of the inspection surface; and
a thickness of the inspection surface.
199. The method of claim 198, wherein each inspection dimension is labeled with at least one of:
numeric values;
shading values;
transparency;
a tool-tip indicator;
color values; or
hatching values.
200. A system comprising:
an inspection robot comprising at least one payload;
at least two arms, wherein each arm is pivotally mounted to a payload;
at least two sleds, wherein each sled is mounted to one of the arms;
a plurality of inspection sensors, each inspection sensor coupled to one of the sleds such that each sensor is operationally couplable to an inspection surface, wherein the sleds are horizontally distributed on the inspection surface at selected horizontal positions, and wherein each of the arms is horizontally moveable relative to a corresponding payload; and a controller comprising:
an inspection data circuit structured to interpret inspection data of the inspection surface;
a robot positioning circuit structured to interpret position data of the inspection robot; a user interaction circuit structured to interpret an inspection visualization request for an inspection map;
a processed data circuit structured to link the inspection data with the position data to determine position-based inspection data;
an inspection visualization circuit structured to determine the inspection map in response to the inspection visualization request based on the position-based inspection data; and a provisioning circuit structured to provide the inspection map.
201. The system of claim 200, wherein the inspection map includes a layout of the inspection surface based on the position-based inspection data, and wherein the layout is in at least one of: real space; and virtual space.
202. The system of claim 200, wherein the inspection visualization circuit is further structured to identify a feature of the inspection surface and a corresponding locations on the inspection surface, wherein the feature is selected from a list consisting of: an obstacle; surface build up; a weld line; a gouge; and a repaired section.
203. An apparatus for displaying an inspection map comprising:
a user interaction circuit structured to interpret an inspection visualization request for an inspection map;
a processed data circuit structured to link inspection data with position data to determine position-based inspection data;
an inspection visualization circuit structured to determine the inspection map in response to the inspection visualization request and the position-based inspection data; and a provisioning circuit structured to provide the inspection map to a user display, wherein the user interaction circuit is further structured to interpret a user focus value corresponding to the inspection map, wherein the user focus value is provided by a user input device.
204. The apparatus of claim 203, further comprising:
an inspection data circuit structured to interpret inspection data of an inspection surface;
a robot positioning circuit structured to interpret position data of an inspection robot;
205. The apparatus of claim 203, further comprising updating the inspection map in response to the user focus value.
206. The apparatus of claim 205, wherein updating the inspection map comprises updating an inspection plan.
207. The apparatus of claim 205, wherein updating the inspection map comprises selecting an inspection dimension to be displayed or selecting a visualization property for an inspection dimension.
208. The apparatus of claim 204, wherein the inspection map includes two features of the inspection surface and corresponding locations on the inspection surface, each of the two features selected from a list consisting of: an obstacle;
a surface build up;
a weld line;
a gouge; or
a repaired section.
209. The apparatus of claim 204, wherein the inspection data comprises an inspection dimension selected from a list consisting of:
a temperature of the inspection surface;
a coating type of the inspection surface;
a color of the inspection surface;
a smoothness of the inspection surface;
an obstacle density of the inspection surface;
a radius of curvature of the inspection surface; and
a thickness of the inspection surface.
210. The apparatus of claim 209, wherein the inspection map includes visualization properties for each of the inspection dimensions, the visualization properties each including at least one of:
numeric values;
shading values;
transparency;
a tool-tip indicator;
color values; or
hatching values.
211. The apparatus of claim 203, wherein the position data comprises an azimuthal indicator and a height indicator, and wherein the inspection map includes visualization properties for the azimuthal indicator or the height indicator.
212. The apparatus of claim 203, wherein the user focus value comprises event type data indicating that the user focus value was generated in response at least one of:
a mouse position;
a menu-selection;
a touch screen indication;
a key stroke; and
a virtual gesture.
213. The apparatus of claim 205, wherein the user focus value comprises at least one of:
an inspection data range value;
an inspection data time value;
a threshold value corresponding to at least one parameter of the linked inspection data; and
a virtual mark request corresponding to at least one position of the inspection map.
214. An apparatus for, the apparatus comprising:
an inspection circuit structured to command operations of an inspection robot operating on an inspection surface, and to interpret inspection data from a plurality of sensors operationally coupled to the inspection robot;
an inspection visualization circuit structured to generate an inspection map in response to the inspection data;
a user interaction circuit structured to provide the inspection map to a user device, and to interpret a user focus value from the user device;
an action request circuit structured to determine an action for the inspection robot in response to the user focus value;
an event processing circuit structured to provide an action command value in response to the determined action; and
wherein the inspection circuit is further structured to update the operations of the inspection robot in response to the action command value.
215. The apparatus of claim 214, wherein the user interaction circuit is further structured to interpret the user focus value by interrogating a user display of the user device.
216. The apparatus of claim 214, wherein the action command value includes location data identifying a location at which the action is to be performed.
217. The apparatus of claim 216, wherein the action request circuit is further structured to determine the location data based on the user focus value.
218. The apparatus of claim 217, wherein the user focus value includes coordinate information from the inspection map.
219. The apparatus of claim 216, wherein the location of data is in real space.
220. The apparatus of claim 216, wherein the location data is in virtual space.
221. The apparatus of claim 214, wherein the user focus value includes event type data indicating that the user focus value was generated in response at least one of: a mouse position;
a menu-selection;
a touch screen indication;
a key stroke; and
a virtual gesture.
222. The apparatus of claim 214, wherein the action command value corresponds to a repair procedure.
223. The apparatus of claim 222, further comprising:
a repair circuit responsive to the action command value and structured to execute the repair procedure by actuating a device selected from a list of devices consisting of:
a welding device;
a drilling device;
a sawing device;
an ablation device; and
a heating device.
224. The apparatus of claim 214, wherein the action command value corresponds to a marking procedure.
225. The apparatus of claim 214, further comprising:
a marking circuit responsive to the action command value and structured to execute the marking procedure by actuating at least one of:
a painting device;
a stamping device;
a drilling device;
a sawing device;
an ablation device; and
a heating device.
226. The apparatus of claim 214, wherein action command value corresponds to an inspection procedure.
227. The apparatus of claim 226, further comprising:
an inspection circuit responsive to the action command value and structured to execute the inspection procedure by actuating a sensor.
228. The apparatus of claim 214, wherein the event processing circuit provides the action command value during a run-time of the inspection robot.
229. A method for performing an inspection of an inspection surface with an inspection robot, the method comprising:
generating an inspection map in response to inspection data;
providing the inspection map on a user display;
interpreting a user focus value;
determining an action in response to the user focus value; and providing an action command value in response to the determined action.
230. The method of claim 229, wherein interpreting a user focus value comprises: interrogating the user display.
231. The method of claim 229, further comprising identifying a location value at which the determined action is to be performed.
232. The method of claim 231, wherein identifying the location value is based in part on the user focus value.
233. The method of claim 232, wherein identifying the location value is based in part on coordinate information in the user focus value from the inspection map.
234. The method of claim 231, wherein the location value is in real space.
235. The method of claim 231, wherein the location value is in virtual space.
236. The method of claim 229, wherein the user focus value includes event type data indicating that the user focus value was generated in response to at least one of:
a mouse position;
a menu-selection;
a touch screen indication;
a key stroke; and
a virtual gesture.
237. The method of claim 229, further comprising executing a repair procedure, wherein the action command value corresponds to the repair procedure.
238. The method of claim 229, further comprising executing a marking procedure, wherein the action command value corresponds to the marking procedure.
239. The method of claim 229, further comprising executing an inspection procedure, wherein the action command value corresponds to an inspection procedure.
240. The method of claim 229, wherein providing an action command value in response to the determined action occurs during a run-time of the inspection robot.
241. A system comprising: an inspection robot comprising a plurality of payloads;
a plurality of arms, wherein each of the plurality of arms is pivotally mounted to one of the plurality of payloads;
a plurality of sleds, wherein each sled is mounted to one of the plurality of arms; a plurality of inspection sensors, each of the inspection sensors coupled to one of the plurality of sleds such that each sensor is operationally couplable to an inspection surface, wherein the plurality of sleds are horizontally distributed on the inspection surface at selected horizontal positions, and wherein each of the arms is horizontally moveable relative to a corresponding payload; and
a controller comprising:
an interpreting interaction circuit structured to interpret a user focus value;
an action request circuit structured to determine an action for the inspection robot in response to the user focus value; and
an event processing circuit structured to provide an action command value in response to the determined action.
242. The system of claim 241, wherein the interpreting interaction circuit is further structured to interpret the user focus value by interrogating a user display.
243. The system of claim 241, wherein the action command value comprises a location value identifying a location at which the action is to be performed.
244. The system of claim 243, wherein the action request circuit is further structured to determine the location value based on the user focus value.
245. The system of claim 244, wherein the controller further comprises:
an inspection visualization circuit structured to generate an inspection map;
wherein
the user focus value includes coordinate information from the inspection map; and the action request circuit determines the location value based on the coordinate information.
246. The system of claim 243, wherein the location value is in real space.
247. The system of claim 243, wherein the location value is in virtual space.
248. The system of claim 241, wherein the action command value corresponds to an inspection procedure.
249. The system of claim 248, wherein the controller further comprises: an inspection circuit responsive to the action command value and structured to execute the inspection procedure by actuating a sensor.
250. The system of claim 241, wherein the event processing circuit provides the action command value during a run-time of the inspection robot.
251. An apparatus for providing an interactive inspection map of an inspection surface inspected by an inspection robot, the apparatus comprising:
an inspection visualization circuit structured to provide an inspection map to a user device in response to inspection data provided by a plurality of sensors operationally coupled to an inspection robot operating on an inspection surface, wherein the inspection map corresponds to at least a portion of the inspection surface;
a user interaction circuit structured to interpret a user focus value from the user device;
an action request circuit structured to determine an action in response to the user focus value; and
wherein the inspection visualization circuit is further structured to update the inspection map in response to the determined action.
252. The apparatus of claim 251, wherein the inspection map further comprises position-based inspection data corresponding to the at least a portion of the inspection surface.
253. The apparatus of claim 251, wherein the inspection map further comprises a distinct visualization property for each of at least two inspection dimensions.
254. The apparatus of claim 253, wherein each of the at least two inspection dimensions includes at least two of:
a temperature of the inspection surface;
a coating type of the inspection surface;
a color of the inspection surface;
a smoothness of the inspection surface;
an obstacle density of the inspection surface;
a radius of curvature of the inspection surface; and
a thickness of the inspection surface.
255. The apparatus of claim 253, wherein each distinct visualization property includes at least one of:
numeric values;
shading values; transparency values;
pattern values;
a tool-tip value;
color values; and
hatching values.
256. The apparatus of claim 251, wherein
the user focus value further comprises a time value; and
wherein the visualization circuit is further structured to update the inspection map in response to the time value.
257. The apparatus of claim 256, wherein the time value is selected from a list of time values consisting of:
a specified time value;
a specified time range; and
a specified inspection event identifier;
a trajectory of an inspection dimension over time; and
a specified inspection identifier
258. The apparatus of claim 256, wherein the time value is a trajectory of an inspection dimension over time, and wherein the inspection dimension over time is representative of at least one of: a previous inspection run, a predicted inspection run, or an interpolation between two inspection runs.
259. The apparatus of claim 256, wherein the visualization circuit is further structured to update the inspection map by providing a plurality of display frames of the inspection map, each of the plurality of display frames corresponding to at least one period of the time value.
260. The apparatus of claim 251 , wherein:
the inspection map includes a plurality of display layers; and
wherein the visualization circuit is further structured to update the inspection map by setting an activation state value of at least one of the plurality of display layers in response to the user focus value.
261. The apparatus of claim 260, wherein each of the plurality of display layers is selected from a list of layers consisting of:
an inspection dimension layer;
a coating layer;
a part overlay layer; a remaining life layer;
a scheduled maintenance layer; and
a planned downtime layer.
262. The apparatus of claim 260, wherein at least one of the plurality of display layers comprises a planned downtime layer, and wherein the planned downtime layer comprises a time based depiction of downtime values.
263. The apparatus of claim 260, wherein at least one of the plurality of display layers comprises a planned downtime layer, and wherein the planned downtime layer comprises a spatial depiction of downtime values.
264. A method for providing an interactive inspection map of an inspection surface inspected by an inspection robot, the method comprising:
providing an inspection map to a user device;
interpreting a user focus value;
determining an action in response to the user focus value;
updating the inspection map in response to the determined action, the inspection map including positioned-based inspection data of the inspection surface; and
providing the updated inspection map.
265. The method of claim 264, wherein updating an inspection map comprises: linking at least two inspection dimensions of the positioned-based inspection data to at least two visualization properties of the inspection map.
266. The method of claim 265, wherein the at least two inspection dimensions are selected from a list of dimensions consisting of:
a temperature of the inspection surface;
a coating type of the inspection surface;
a color of the inspection surface;
a smoothness of the inspection surface;
an obstacle density of the inspection surface;
a radius of curvature of the inspection surface; and
a thickness of the inspection surface.
267. The method of claim 264, wherein updating an inspection map comprises linking time data to the position-based inspection data.
268. The method of claim 267, wherein the time data is for at least one of:
a past inspection of the inspection surface; and
a future inspection of the inspection surface.
269. The method of claim 267, wherein updating an inspection map comprises determining one or more display frames of the inspection map over one or more periods included in the time data.
270. The method of claim 264, wherein updating an inspection map comprises setting an activation state value of at least one or more display layers.
271. The method of claim 270, wherein the one or more display layers include at least one of:
an inspection dimension layer;
a coating layer;
a part overlay layer;
a scheduled maintenance layer; and
a planned downtime layer.
272. A system comprising:
an inspection robot comprising a plurality of payloads;
a plurality of arms, wherein each of the plurality of arms is pivotally mounted to one of the plurality of payloads;
a plurality of sleds, wherein each sled is mounted to one of the plurality of arms; a plurality of inspection sensors, each of the inspection sensors coupled to one of the plurality of sleds such that each sensor is operationally couplable to an inspection surface, wherein the plurality of sleds are horizontally distributed on the inspection surface at selected horizontal positions, and wherein each of the arms is horizontally moveable relative to a corresponding payload; and
a controller comprising:
a user interaction circuit structured to interpret a user focus value;
an action request circuit structured to determine an action in response to the user focus value; and
an inspection visualization circuit structured to update an inspection map in response to the determined action, the inspection map including positioned-based inspection data of the inspection surface; and
a provisioning circuit structured to provide the updated inspection map.
273. The system of claim 272, wherein:
the positioned-based inspection data includes at least two inspection dimensions; the inspection map includes visualization properties for the at least two inspection dimensions, and
the visualization circuit is further structured to update the inspection map by linking the at least two inspection dimensions to visualization properties.
274. The system of claim 273, wherein each of the at least two inspection dimensions are selected from the dimensions consisting of:
a temperature of the inspection surface;
a coating type of the inspection surface;
a color of the inspection surface;
a smoothness of the inspection surface;
an obstacle density of the inspection surface;
a radius of curvature of the inspection surface; and
a thickness of the inspection surface.
275. A method of manufacturing a wheel assembly for an inspection robot, the method comprising:
providing a mount having a base and one or more retractable magnet support structures extending away from the base;
supporting a first wheel component with the base;
supporting a rare earth magnet with the one or more retractable magnet support structures at a first distance from the base;
retracting the one or more retractable magnet support structures with respect to the base until the rare earth magnet reaches a second distance closer to the base than the first distance.
276. The method of claim 275, further comprising:
restricting lateral movement of the rare earth magnet with respect to the base via a lateral support structure that extends from the base.
277. The method of claim 276, wherein restricting lateral movement with respect to the base via the lateral support structure comprises:
penetrating opening defined, at least in part, by a body of the rare earth magnet with the lateral support structure.
278. The method of claim 276, wherein restricting lateral movement of the rare earth magnet with respect to the base via the lateral support structure comprises: contacting an exterior surface of the rare earth magnet with the lateral support structure.
279. The method of claim 275, wherein the second distance is as approximately equal to a thickness of the first wheel component.
280. The method of claim 275, further comprising: supporting the rare earth magnet via the first wheel component when the rare earth magnet is at the second distance.
281. The method of claim 280, further comprising:
extending the one or more retractable magnet support structures with respect to the base to a third distance from the base; and
supporting a second wheel component with the one or more retractable magnet support structures at the third distance from the base, wherein the third distance is greater than a combined width of the rare earth magnet and a width of the first wheel component.
282. The method of claim 275, wherein the one or more retractable magnet support structures penetrate the base.
283. The method of claim 275, wherein the one or more retractable magnet support structures are rods.
284. The method of claim 275, wherein the one or more retractable magnet support structures retract at a selectable rate.
285. A system for manufacturing a wheel assembly for an inspection robot, the system comprising:
a base;
one or more retractable magnet support structures with distal ends extending away from the base; and
one or more actuators coupled to the one or more retractable magnet support structures;
wherein the one or more actuators retract the one or more retractable magnet support structures with respect to the base from a first position to a second position in which the distal ends are closer to the base than when the one or more retractable magnet support structures are in the first position.
286. The system of claim 285, further comprising: a lateral support structure extending away from the base.
287. The system of claim 286, wherein the lateral support structure is centrally disposed between the one or more retractable magnet support structures with respect to the base.
288. The system of claim 286, wherein the lateral support structure is a cylinder.
289. The system of claim 285, wherein the one or more retractable magnet support structures are rods.
290. The system of claim 285, wherein the one or more actuators are operative to retract the one or more retractable magnet support structures at a selectable rate.
291. A method of manufacturing a wheel assembly for an inspection robot, the method comprising:
providing a mount having a planar base, one or more retractable rods, and a central cylinder, the one or more retractable rods and the central cylinder extending away from the planar base;
placing a first wheel component onto the planar base wherein: a central opening defined, at least in part, by a body of the first wheel component is penetrated by the central cylinder,
one or more side openings defined, at least in part, by the body of the first wheel component are penetrated by the one or more retractable rods;
placing a rare earth magnet onto the one or more retractable rods so that an opening defined, at least in part, by a body of the rare earth magnet is penetrated by the central cylinder;
supporting the rare earth magnet with the one or more retractable rods at a first distance from the planar base;
restricting lateral movement of the rare earth magnet with respect to the planar base via the central cylinder; and retracting the one or more retractable rods with respect to the planar base until the rare earth magnet is supported against the planar base, at least in part, by the first wheel component.
292. The method of claim 291, wherein the one or more retractable rods retract at a selectable rate.
293. The method of claim 291, further comprising:
extending the one or more retractable rods with respect to the planar base to a second distance from the planar base; and
supporting a second wheel component with the one or more retractable rods at the second distance from the planar base, wherein the second distance is farther from the planar base that the first distance.
294. A method of disassembling a wheel assembly for an inspection robot, the method comprising:
providing a mount having a base and one or more extendable magnet support structures;
supporting a wheel assembly with the base, the wheel assembly comprising a first wheel component, a rare earth magnet, and a second wheel component;
extending the one or more extendable magnet support structures to a first distance with respect to the base to support the first wheel component and create a space between the first wheel component and the rare earth magnet;
removing the first wheel component from the one or more extendable magnet support structures.
295. The method of claim 294, further comprising:
extending the one or more extendable magnet support structures to a second distance with respect to the base to support the rare earth magnet and create a space between the rare earth magnet and the second wheel component; and
removing the rare earth magnet from the one or more extendable magnet support structures.
296. The method of claim 294, wherein the one or more extendable magnet support structures extend at a selectable rate.
297. A modular drive assembly for an inspection robot comprising:
a body;
at least two wheels mounted to the body; and
a connector comprising:
an electrical interface structured to electrically communicate with a control module of the inspection robot; and
a mechanical interface structured to releasably couple the body to a chassis of the inspection robot.
298. The modular drive assembly of claim 297, further comprising:
a first drive motor coupled to a first one of the at least two wheels, and a second drive motor coupled to a second one of the at least two wheels.
299. The modular drive assembly of claim 298, wherein each of the first and second drive motors are independently controllable.
300. The modular drive assembly of claim 298, wherein the at least two wheels are magnetic, and where the first and second drive motors are shielded from electromagnetic interference arising from the wheels.
301. The modular drive assembly of claim 297, further comprising:
an encoder structured to provide a position of the inspection robot.
302. The modular drive assembly of claim 301, wherein the encoder provides a relative position.
303. The modular drive assembly of claim 301, wherein encoder provides an absolute position.
304. The modular drive assembly of claim 301, wherein the encoder is a contact based encoder.
305. The modular drive assembly of claim 304, wherein the encoder is a passive encoder.
306. The modular drive assembly of claim 305, further comprising a biasing assembly coupled to the encoder, wherein the biasing assembly biases the encoder toward an inspection surface.
307. The modular drive assembly of claim 301, wherein the encoder is a noncontact based encoder.
308. The modular drive assembly of claim 307, wherein the encoder is operatively coupled to a drive motor, and wherein the drive motor is coupled to at least one of the at least two wheels.
309. The modular drive assembly of claim 308, wherein the at least one of the at least two wheels comprises a magnetic wheel, and wherein the encoder is shielded from electromagnetic interference from the magnetic wheel.
310. The modular drive assembly of claim 297, further comprising:
a payload actuator coupled to the body at a first end, and having a payload coupling interface at a second end.
311. The modular drive assembly of claim 310, wherein the payload actuator adjusts a down force of a payload relative to an inspection surface.
312. A method of configuring an inspection robot for inspecting an inspection surface, the method comprising:
selectively uncoupling a first mechanical interface and a first electrical interface of a first connector of a first modular drive assembly from a drive module interface of a chassis of the inspection robot;
selecting a second modular drive assembly having a second connector; and releasably coupling a second mechanical interface and a second electrical interface of the second connector to the drive module interface of the chassis of the inspection robot;
wherein the first and the second electrical interfaces comprise electrical power and control connection for the respective modular drive assembly, and wherein the first and second mechanical interfaces comprise mechanical coupling for the respective modular drive assembly.
313. The method of claim 312, wherein the first and the second modular drive assemblies each have at least two wheels positioned to be in contacts with the inspection surface when the inspection robot is positioned on the inspection surface.
314. The method of claim 313, wherein at least one wheel of the second modular drive assembly has a different wheel configuration than at least one corresponding wheel of the first modular drive assembly.
315. The method of claim 312, wherein the first mechanical interface comprises a first rotation limiter, wherein the second mechanical interface comprises a second rotation limiter, the method further comprising limiting a relative rotation of a connected modular drive assembly in response to the respective coupled rotation limiter.
316. The method of claim 312, wherein the first mechanical interface comprises a first translation limiter, wherein the second mechanical interface comprises a second translation limiter, the method further comprising limiting a relative translation of a connected modular drive assembly in response to the respective coupled translation limiter.
317. The method of claim 312, further comprising selectively controlling the second modular drive assembly in one of a first direction or a second direction.
318. The method of claim 317, wherein the selectively controlling further comprises determining one of a coupled chassis side corresponding to the second modular drive assembly or a target movement direction of the inspection robot.
319. A method of inspecting an inspection surface with an inspection robot, the method comprising:
releasably coupling an electrical interface and a mechanical interface of a modular drive assembly to a drive module interface of the inspection robot;
positioning the inspection robot on the inspection surface, thereby engaging at least one wheel of the modular drive assembly with the inspection surface; and
powering the modular drive assembly through the electrical interface, thereby controllably moving the inspection robot along the inspection surface.
320. The method of claim 319, wherein the releasably coupling the electrical interface and the mechanical interface comprises performing a single engagement operation.
321. The method of claim 319, further comprising limiting a relative rotation between the modular drive assembly and a chassis of the inspection robot through the mechanical interface.
322. The method of claim 319, further comprising limiting a translation movement between the modular drive assembly and a chassis of the inspection robot through the mechanical interface.
323. The method of claim 319, further comprising releasably coupling an electrical interface and a mechanical interface of a second modular drive assembly to a second drive module interface of the inspection robot, wherein the drive module interface is positioned on a first side of a chassis of the inspection robot, and wherein the second drive module interface is positioned on a second side of the chassis of the inspection robot.
324. The method of claim 323, wherein controllably moving the inspection robot on the inspection surface comprises:
independently driving the at least one wheel of the modular drive assembly and at least one wheel of the second modular drive assembly.
325. The method of claim 324, further comprising:
independently monitoring movement of the at least one wheel of the modular drive assembly and the at least one wheel of the second modular drive assembly.
326. The method of claim 325, further comprising:
determining a position of the inspection robot based at least in part on the monitored movements of the one or more wheels.
327. The method of claim 325, further comprising:
determining that at least one of the at least one wheel of the modular drive assembly or the at least one wheel of the second modular drive assembly is slipping with respect to the inspection surface based at least in part on the monitored movement of the one or more wheels.
328. The method of claim 327, further comprising:
determining a passive encoder output from a passive encoder associated with one of the modular drive assembly or the second modular drive assembly; and
determining that at least one of the at least one wheel of the modular drive assembly or the at least one wheel of the second modular drive assembly is slipping with respect to the inspection surface further based at least in part on the passive encoder output.
329. A connector for a drive module of an inspection robot, the connector comprising:
a body having a first end for coupling with the drive module and a second end for engaging a chassis of the inspection robot;
an electrical component structured to couple an electrical power source from the chassis to an electrical power load of the drive module, and further structured to provide electrical communication between a controller positioned on the chassis and at least one of a sensor, an actuator, or a drive controller positioned on the drive module; and
a mechanical component defined, at least in part, by the body and structured to selectively and releasably couple the body to the chassis.
330. The connector of claim 329, wherein the body comprises:
a wall that defines, at least in part, the mechanical component; and
an inner cavity defined, at least in part, by the wall and within which the electrical component is disposed.
331. The connector of claim 329, wherein the mechanical component includes a fixed rotation limiter that limits rotation of the body with respect to the chassis.
332. The connector of claim 331, wherein a distribution of degrees of the rotation of the body with respect to the chassis is symmetrical about an inspection position, the inspection position comprising a nominal alignment of the drive module with the chassis when the inspection robot is positioned on an inspection surface.
333. The connector of claim 332, wherein the fixed rotation limiter limits the degrees of rotation to within about +20 degrees to about -20 degrees from the inspection position.
334. The connector of claim 332, wherein a distribution of degrees of the rotation of the body with respect to the chassis is asymmetrical about an inspection position, the inspection position comprising a nominal alignment of the drive module with the chassis when the inspection robot is positioned on an inspection surface.
335. The connector of claim 334, wherein the fixed rotation limiter limits the degrees of rotation to within about +5 degrees to about -15 degrees from the center point.
336. The connector of claim 331, wherein the fixed rotation limiter is a slot defined, at least in part, by a wall of the body and structured to receive a tongue of the chassis.
337. The connector of claim 331, wherein the fixed rotation limiter is a tongue defined by an outer wall of the body and structured to be received by a slot of the chassis.
338. The connector of claim 329, wherein the mechanical component includes a translation limiter that limits translation of the body with respect to the chassis.
339. The connector of claim 338, wherein the translation limiter includes a piston stop defined, at least in part, by a wall of the body.
340. The connector of claim 329, wherein the electrical component is positioned coaxially within the mechanical component.
341. The connector of claim 329, wherein the electrical component and the mechanical component are axially aligned such that engagement of the drive module with the mechanical component simultaneously engages the electrical component.
342. A method for connecting a drive module to an inspection robot, the method comprising:
coupling a drive module to a mechanical component, the mechanical component defined, at least in part, by a body of a connector for the drive module to a chassis of the inspection robot;
coupling the drive module to an electrical component, thereby coupling a power source from the chassis to an electrical power load of the drive module, and further providing electrical communication between a controller positioned on the chassis and at least one of a sensor, an actuator, or a drive controller positioned on the drive module; and coupling at least one of a rotation limiter or a translation limiter, the rotation limiter structured to limit rotation of the body with respect to the chassis, and the translation limiter structured to limit translation of the body with respect to the chassis.
343. The method of claim 342, wherein the coupling the drive module to the mechanical component and the coupling the drive module to the electrical component comprises engaging the drive module to the connector in a single operation.
344. The method of claim 342, wherein coupling the rotation limiter comprises engaging a slot at least partially defined by the wall with a tongue of the chassis.
345. The method of claim 342, wherein coupling the rotation limiter comprises engaging a tongue at least partially defined by the wall with a slot of the chassis.
346. The method of claim 342, wherein coupling the translation limiter comprises engaging a piston stop at least partially defined by the wall with a translation stop engagement of the chassis.
347. A method for operating an inspection robot having a drive module connector, the method comprising:
providing a drive command to a drive module through an electrical component of a connector, the connector coupled to the drive module at a first end, and coupled to a chassis of the inspection robot at a second end;
providing electrical power through the electrical component of the connector to a motor of the drive module; and
limiting at least one of a rotation of the drive module with respect to the chassis, or a translation of the drive module with respect to the chassis.
348. The method of claim 347, wherein the limiting the rotation of the drive module with respect to the chassis comprises engaging a slot of an outer wall of the connector with a tongue of the chassis.
349. The method of claim 347, wherein the limiting the rotation of the drive module with respect to the chassis comprises symmetrically limiting the rotation from an inspection position, the inspection position comprising a nominal alignment of the drive module with the chassis when the inspection robot is positioned on an inspection surface.
350. The method of claim 347, wherein the limiting the rotation of the drive module with respect to the chassis comprises asymmetrically limiting the rotation from an inspection position, the inspection position comprising a nominal alignment of the drive module with the chassis when the inspection robot is positioned on an inspection surface.
351. The method of claim 350, wherein the asymmetrically limiting the rotation from the inspection position comprises allowing a greater negative rotation than a positive rotation.
352. The method of claim 350, wherein the asymmetrically limiting the rotation from the inspection position comprises allowing a greater positive rotation than a negative rotation.
353. The method of claim 347, wherein the limiting the translation of the drive module with respect to the chassis comprises engaging a piston stop of an outer wall of the connector with a translation stop engagement of the chassis.
354. The method of claim 347, wherein the limiting the rotation of the drive module with respect to the chassis comprises engaging a tongue of an outer wall of the connector with a slot of the chassis.
355. The method of claim 347, wherein providing a drive command to the drive module comprises determining an orientation of the drive module, and providing the drive command in response to the orientation of the drive module and a target movement direction of the inspection robot.
356. An inspection robot comprising:
a center chassis;
at least one of payload, each payload pivotally mounted to the center chassis, and each payload operationally coupled to at least two inspection sensors;
at least two drive suspensions, each of the drive suspensions pivotally coupling the center chassis to a corresponding drive module;
wherein each of the corresponding drive modules is independently rotatable.
357. The robot of claim 356, wherein at least one of the at least two drive suspensions comprises a rotation limiter structured to define a maximum degree of rotation between the corresponding drive module and the center chassis.
358. The robot of claim 356, wherein each of the at least two drive suspensions comprises a corresponding piston structured to vary a distance between the center chassis and the corresponding drive module.
359. The robot of claim 358, wherein each of the at least two drive suspensions further comprises a corresponding translation limiter structured to define a maximum distance between the center chassis and the corresponding drive module.
360. The robot of claim 356, further comprising an actuator pivotally coupling the payload and the center chassis.
361. The robot of claim 360, wherein the actuator is a linear actuator.
362. The robot of claim 360, wherein the actuator is a pneumatic actuator.
363. The robot of claim 360, wherein the actuator is further structured to adjust a height of the at least one of the payloads relative to the center chassis.
364. The robot of claim 360, further comprising at least one drive actuator coupled to a corresponding drive module at a first end, and coupled to the drive epayload at a second end.
365. The robot of claim 364, wherein:
the actuator, in a first position, positions the payload in a first pivoted position away from an inspection surface;
the actuator, in a second position, positions the payload in a second pivoted position toward the inspection surface; and
wherein the first pivoted position and the second pivoted position comprise distinct pivoted positions relative to the center chassis.
366. The robot of claim 365, wherein the actuator in the second position applies a selected down force on the payload toward the inspection surface.
367. The robot of claim 366, wherein the actuator is configured to adjust the selected down force as the actuator position approaches the second position, wherein the actuator in the second position applies a maximum actuator down force on the payload toward the inspection surface.
368. The robot of claim 356, wherein each of the corresponding drive modules comprises at least two wheels, and wherein at least one of the at least two wheels for each corresponding drive module is turnable under power.
369. The robot of claim 368, wherein each of the at least two wheels on at least one of the drive modules are independently tumable.
370. A method for enabling an inspection robot to traverse a nonplanar surface, comprising: providing drive power to a first drive module, and electrical communication between the first drive module and a center chassis, through a first connector coupling the first drive module to the center chassis, the first connector defining a first axis;
providing electrical communication between a second drive module and the center chassis through a second connector coupling a second drive module to the center chassis, the second connector defining a second axis;
rotating the first drive module about the first axis; and
rotating the second drive module about the second axis.
371. The method of claim 370, further comprising providing drive power to the second drive module through the second connector.
372. The method of claim 371, wherein a first drive wheel of the first drive module and a second drive wheel of the second drive module are independently driveable.
373. The method of claim 370, further comprising determining a first velocity for the first drive module, determining a second velocity for the second drive module, and determining an indication of an obstacle in response to a difference between the first velocity and the second velocity.
374. The method of claim 373, further comprising lifting a payload coupled to the center chassis in response to the indication of the obstacle.
375. The method of claim 373, wherein determining the first velocity for the first drive module comprises interpreting a first velocity value from a passive encoder operationally coupled to the first drive module.
376. The method of claim 375, further comprising biasing the passive encoder toward the inspection surface.
377. A system for inspecting an uneven inspection surface, comprising:
a center chassis;
a payload pivotally mounted to the center chassis, and operationally coupled to at least two inspection sensors; a first drive module coupled to the center chassis, and rotatable relative to the center chassis in a plane of a direction of travel for an inspection robot including the center chassis, the first drive module comprising at least two wheels positioned to contact an inspection surface when the inspection robot is positioned on the inspection surface; and
a second drive module coupled to the center chassis, the second drive module comprising at least two wheels positioned to contact the inspection surface when the inspection robot is positioned on the inspection surface.
378. The system of claim 377, wherein the second drive module is rotatable relative to the center chassis in the plane of the direction of travel for the inspection robot.
379. The system of claim 378, wherein the first drive module and the second drive module are independently rotatable.
380. The system of claim 378, wherein the second drive module is pivotally fixed relative to the center chassis.
381. The system of claim 377, further comprising a rotation limiter structured to define a maximum degree of rotation between the first drive module and the center chassis.
382. The system of claim 381, wherein the second drive module is rotatable relative to the center chassis in the plane of the direction of travel for the inspection robot.
383. The system of claim 382, wherein the first drive module and the second drive module are independently rotatable.
384. The system of claim 383, wherein the maximum degree of rotation comprises zero degrees.
385. The system of claim 377, further comprising a piston mechanically interposed between the first drive module and the center chassis, wherein the piston is structured to vary a distance between the center chassis and the first drive module.
386. The system of claim 385, further comprising a translation limiter structured to define a maximum distance between the center chassis and the first drive module.
387. The system of claim 386, further comprising a piston stop, wherein the translation limiter interacts with the piston stop to define the maximum distance between the center chassis and the first drive module.
388. The system of claim 377, further comprising an actuator pivotally coupling the payload and the center chassis, and wherein:
the actuator, in a first position, positions the payload in a first pivoted position away from the inspection surface;
the actuator, in a second position, positions the payload in a second pivoted position toward the inspection surface; and
wherein the first pivoted position and the second pivoted position comprise distinct pivoted positions relative to the center chassis.
389. The system of claim 388, wherein the actuator is structured to move toward the first position in response to a detected feature of the inspection surface.
390. The system of claim 389, where the detected feature of the inspection surface is selected from a list of features consisting of: an obstacle, a potential obstacle, a detected variability in the inspection surface, a detected increase in a slope of the inspection surface, and a transition from a first region of the inspection surface to a second region of the inspection surface.
391. The system of claim 390, further comprising a stability device pivotally mounted to the center chassis, and a second actuator pivotally coupling the stability device to the center chassis, and wherein:
the second actuator, in a first position, positions the stability device in a first pivoted position away from the inspection surface;
the second actuator, in a second position, positions the stability device in a second pivoted position toward the inspection surface; and
wherein the second pivoted position comprises a deployed position of the stability device.
392. The system of claim 391, wherein the actuator is structured to move toward the second position in response to the detected feature of the inspection surface.
393. A connector for a drive module of an inspection robot, the connector comprising:
a body having a first end for coupling with a drive module and a second end for engaging a chassis of the inspection robot, the body having a wall that defines, at least in part, a cavity;
a mechanical component defined, at least in part, by the wall and structured to selectively and releasably couple the body to the chassis of the inspection robot at the first end; and
an electrical component disposed in the cavity, the electrical component structured to couple an electrical power source from the chassis to an electrical power load of the drive module, and further structured to provide electrical communication between a controller positioned on the chassis and a drive controller positioned on the drive module.
394. The connector of claim 393, wherein the electrical component is further structured to provide electrical communication between the controller positioned on the chassis and at least one sensor positioned on the drive module.
395. The connector of claim 394, wherein the at least one sensor comprises at least one sensor selected from the sensors consisting of: a position sensor operationally coupled to the drive controller; an encoder operationally coupled to one of the drive controller or a driven wheel of the drive module; or a passive encoder operationally coupled to a wheel in contact with the inspection surface.
396. The connector of claim 394, wherein the electrical component is further structured to provide electrical communication between the controller positioned on the chassis and a payload actuator positioned on the drive module.
397. The connector of claim 393, wherein the body includes a slot defined, at least in part, by the wall and structured to receive a tongue of the chassis that limits rotation of the body with respect to the chassis.
398. The connector of claim 393, wherein the body includes a tongue defined, at least in part, by the wall and structured to engage a slot of the chassis that limits rotation of the body with respect to the chassis.
399. The connector of claim 393, wherein the body includes a piston stop defined, at least in part, by the wall and structured to limit translation of the body with respect to the chassis.
400. The connector of claim 393, wherein the electrical component comprises an electrical connector interface structured to couple with at least one of a chassis connector or a drive module connector.
401. The connector of claim 400, wherein the electrical connector interface further comprises at least two prongs structured to interlock with at least two prongs of the chassis connector.
402. The connector of claim 400, wherein the electrical connector interface further comprises a connector break-out board structured to couple to a drive module daughter board.
403. The connector of claim 393, wherein the mechanical component is disposed on a connecting portion of the body having a cross-sectional area that is less than a crosssectional area of a connection port on the chassis, and the mechanical component is further structured to couple selectively and releasably to the chassis inside of the connection port.
404. The connector of claim 403, wherein the electrical component includes at least two prongs structured to interlock with at least two prongs of a connector on the chassis disposed inside of the connection port.
405. The connector of claim 393, wherein the body of the connector has a crosssectional profile having an approximate shape selected from the list consisting of:
circular;
rectangular; and
triangular.
406. A fixed rotation limiter for a drive assembly of an inspection robot, the fixed rotation limiter comprising:
a slot disposed on a body structured to rotatably couple a drive module to a chassis of the inspection robot and structured to engage a tongue of the chassis;
a first stopping member disposed at a first end of the slot; and a second stopping member disposed at a second end of the slot opposite the first end;
wherein:
the first stopping member restricts rotational movement of the first end past the tongue in a first direction by engaging the tongue; and
the second stopping member restricts rotational movement of the second end past the tongue in a second direction opposite the first direction by engaging the tongue.
407. The fixed rotation limiter of claim 406, wherein the first and the second ends are disposed at symmetrical distances from an inspection position, the inspection position comprising a nominal alignment of the drive module with the chassis when the inspection robot is positioned on an inspection surface.
408. The fixed rotation limiter of claim 407, wherein the first and the second ends are disposed at about +20 degrees and at about -20 degrees, respectively from the inspection position.
409. The fixed rotation limiter of claim 407, wherein the first and the second ends are disposed at about +15 degrees and at about -15 degrees, respectively from the inspection position.
410. The fixed rotation limiter of claim 407, wherein the first and the second ends are disposed at about +10 degrees and at about -10 degrees, respectively from the inspection position.
411. The fixed rotation limiter of claim 407, wherein the first and the second ends are disposed at about +5 degrees and at about -5 degrees, respectively from the inspection position.
412. The fixed rotation limiter of claim 406, wherein the first and the second ends are disposed at asymmetrical distances from an inspection position.
413. The fixed rotation limiter of claim 412, wherein the first and the second ends are disposed at about +5 degrees and at about -15 degrees, respectively from the inspection position.
414. The fixed rotation limiter of claim 406, wherein the slot is defined, at least in part, by the body.
415. The fixed rotation limiter of claim 414, wherein the first and the second stopping members are defined, at least in part, by the body.
416. The fixed rotation limiter of claim 414, wherein the first and the second stopping members are beveled.
417. The fixed rotation limiter of claim 406, wherein the body comprises:
a first portion defining an opening; and
a second portion selectively insertable into the opening;
wherein the first and the second stopping members are disposed on the second portion.
418. A system for limiting rotation of a drive module for an inspection robot, the system comprising:
a slot having a first stopping member disposed at a first end and a second stopping member disposed at a second end opposite the first end; and a tongue structured to engage the slot;
wherein:
the first stopping member restricts relative rotational movement of the first end past the tongue in a first direction by engaging the tongue;
the second stopping member restricts relative rotational movement of the second end past the tongue in a second direction opposite the first direction by engaging the tongue; and the tongue or the slot is disposed on a body that rotatably couples the drive module to a chassis of the inspection robot and the other of the tongue or the slot is disposed on the chassis.
419. The system of claim 418, wherein the first stopping member and the second stopping member are each disposed at symmetrical distances from an inspection position, the inspection position comprising a nominal alignment of the drive module with the chassis when the inspection robot is positioned on an inspection surface.
420. The system of claim 419, wherein the first stopping member and the second stopping member are each disposed at about +20 degrees and at about -20 degrees, respectively from the inspection position.
421. The system of claim 419, wherein the first stopping member and the second stopping member are each disposed at about +15 degrees and at about -15 degrees, respectively from the inspection position.
422. The system of claim 419, wherein the first stopping member and the second stopping member are each disposed at about +10 degrees and at about -10 degrees, respectively from the inspection position.
423. The system of claim 419, wherein the first stopping member and the second stopping member are each disposed at about +5 degrees and at about -5 degrees, respectively from the inspection position.
424. The system of claim 419, wherein the first stopping member and the second stopping member are each disposed at asymmetrical distances from an inspection position.
425. The system of claim 424, wherein the first and the second ends are disposed at about +5 degrees and at about -15 degrees, respectively from the inspection position.
426. The system of claim 418, further comprising a biasing member coupled to the drive module, wherein the biasing member is structured to rotationally bias the drive module.
427. The system of claim 426, wherein the biasing member is further structured to rotationally bias the drive module toward the first stopping member.
428. The system of claim 426, wherein the biasing member is further structured to rotationally bias the drive module toward the second stopping member.
429. The system of claim 426, wherein the biasing member is further structured to rotationally bias the drive module toward an inspection position, the inspection position comprising a nominal alignment of the drive module with the chassis when the inspection robot is positioned on an inspection surface
430. An inspection robot comprising:
a center chassis coupled to a payload, the payload operationally coupled to at least two inspection sensors;
a drive module coupled to the center chassis, the drive module having a drive wheel positioned to engage an inspection surface when the inspection robot is positioned on the inspection surface;
a drive piston mechanically interposed between the center chassis and the drive module, wherein:
the drive piston in a first position couples the drive module to the center chassis at a minimum distance between the drive module and the center chassis; and
the drive piston in a second position couples the drive module to the center chassis at a maximum distance between the drive module and the center chassis;
wherein the drive module is independently rotatable relative to the center chassis.
431. The robot of claim 430, wherein the piston comprises a translation limiter, and wherein the translation limiter enforces the maximum distance of the second position.
432. The robot of claim 430, wherein the center chassis comprises a first drive module connection port on a first side of the center chassis, and a second drive module connection port on a second side of the center chassis, and wherein the first drive module is further structured to be coupled to the center chassis at either drive module connection port.
433. The robot of claim 430, wherein the drive piston is further structured to be pivotally couplable to the first drive module.
434. The robot of claim 433, further comprising a rotation limiter structured to limit the drive module rotation relative to center chassis.
435. The robot of claim 434, wherein the limit of drive module rotation relative to the center chassis is from approximately -10 degrees to + 10 degrees.
436. The robot of claim 434, wherein the limit of drive module rotation relative to the center chassis is unequally distributed relative to 0 degrees.
437. The robot of claim 436, wherein the limit of drive module rotation relative to the center chassis comprises a total range of between 10 degrees and 45 degrees, inclusive.
438. The robot of claim 436, wherein the limit of drive module rotation relative to the center chassis comprises a total range of between 15 degrees and 30 degrees, inclusive.
439. The robot of claim 434, wherein the limit of drive module rotation relative to the center chassis is equally distributed relative to a nominal inspection position of the center chassis.
440. The robot of claim 439, wherein the limit of drive module rotation relative to the center chassis comprises a total range of between 15 degrees and 30 degrees, inclusive.
441. The robot of claim 439, wherein the limit of drive module rotation relative to the center chassis comprises a total range of between 10 degrees and 45 degrees, inclusive.
442. The robot of claim 434, wherein the limit of drive module rotation relative to the center chassis is unequally distributed relative to a nominal inspection position of the center chassis.
443. The robot of claim 442, wherein the limit of drive module rotation relative to the center chassis comprises a total range of between 15 degrees and 30 degrees, inclusive.
444. The robot of claim 442, wherein the limit of drive module rotation relative to the center chassis comprises a total range of between 10 degrees and 45 degrees, inclusive.
445. The robot of claim 435, further comprising a bias member structured to bias the drive module to a desired rotation relative to the center chassis.
446. The robot of claim 445, wherein the desired rotation comprises a nominal inspection position of the center chassis.
447. The robot of claim 430, further comprising:
a power connector structured to transfer power between the center chassis and the drive module, wherein the power connector is positioned in an interior of the piston; and a communications connector structured to transfer digital data between the center chassis and the drive module, wherein the communications connector is positioned in the interior of the piston.
448. A system comprising::
a robot body comprising a center chassis having a first drive module connection port on a first side of the center chassis, and a second drive module connection port on a second side of the center chassis;
a first drive piston operably coupling a first drive module to the robot body at the first drive module connection port;
a second drive piston operably coupling a second drive module to the robot body at the second drive module connection port;
a first drive module having at least two wheels positioned to engage an inspection surface when the robot body is positioned on the inspection surface; and
a second drive module having at least two wheels positioned to engage the inspection surface when the robot body is positioned on the inspection surface.
449. The system of claim 448, wherein the first drive module is rotationally fixed relative to the robot body.
450. The system of claim 448, wherein the first drive module is rotationally moveable relative to the robot body.
451. The system of claim 450, wherein the second drive module is rotationally moveable relative to the robot body.
452. The system of claim 448, wherein:
the first drive piston in a first position couples the first drive module to the robot body at a minimum distance between the first drive module and the robot body; and
the first drive piston in a second position couples the first drive module to the robot body at a maximum distance between the first drive module and the robot body.
</claims>
</document>
