<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
MAYSTER, YAN
SHUCKER, BRIAN
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAYSTER, YAN
SHUCKER, BRIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66677220
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATION OF SURFACE MAPS TO IMPROVE NAVIGATION
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are methods, systems, devices, and tangible non-transitory computer readable media for mapping geographical surfaces. The disclosed technology can access image data and sensor data. The image data can include a plurality of images of one or more locations and semantic information associated with the one or more locations. The sensor data can include sensor information associated with detection of one or more surfaces at the one or more locations by one or more sensors. One or more irregular surfaces can be detected based at least in part on the image data and the sensor data. The one or more irregular surfaces can include the one or more surfaces associated with the image data and the sensor data that satisfies one or more irregular surface criteria at each of the one or more locations respectively. Map data including information associated with the one or more irregular surfaces can be generated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of mapping, the computer-implemented method comprising:
accessing, by a computing system comprising one or more processors, image data and sensor data, wherein the image data comprises a plurality of images of one or more locations and semantic information associated with the one or more locations, and wherein the sensor data comprises sensor information associated with detection of one or more surfaces at the one or more locations by one or more sensors;
determining, by the computing system, one or more irregular surfaces based at least in part on the image data and the sensor data, wherein the one or more irregular surfaces comprise the one or more surfaces associated with the image data and the sensor data that satisfy one or more irregular surface criteria at each of the one or more locations respectively; and
generating, by the computing system, map data comprising information associated with the one or more irregular surfaces.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determining, by the computing system, the one or more irregular surfaces based at least in part on the image data and the sensor data, wherein the one or more irregular surfaces comprise the one or more surfaces associated with the image data and the sensor data that satisfy the one or more irregular surface criteria at each of the one or more locations respectively comprises:
determining, by the computing system, that the one or more irregular surface criteria are satisfied when the sensor data indicates that one or more portions of the one or more surfaces exceed a surface area threshold and include a protuberance that exceeds a height threshold or a depression that exceeds a depth threshold.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the height threshold is based at least in part on a height above an average height of a ground surface of the one or more surfaces, and wherein the depth threshold is based at least in part on a depth below an average height of the ground surface of the one or more surfaces.
4. The computer-implemented method of any preceding claim, wherein the determining, by the computing system, the one or more irregular surfaces based at least in part on the image data and the sensor data, wherein the one or more irregular surfaces comprise the one or more surfaces associated with the image data and the sensor data that satisfy the one or more irregular surface criteria at each of the one or more locations respectively comprises:
determining, by the computing system, one or more portions of the one or more surfaces having a shape that satisfies one or more irregular shape criteria associated with irregularity in a length of sides of the one or more surfaces or irregularity in angles of the one or more surfaces.
5. The computer-implemented method of any preceding claim, wherein the determining, by the computing system, the one or more irregular surfaces based at least in part on the image data and the sensor data, wherein the one or more irregular surfaces comprise the one or more surfaces associated with the image data and the sensor data that satisfy the one or more irregular surface criteria at each of the one or more locations respectively comprises:
determining, by the computing system, one or more vehicle characteristics of a vehicle;
determining, by the computing system, one or more surface characteristics associated with each of the one or more surfaces, wherein the one or more surface characteristics comprise one or more gradients associated with the one or more surfaces or a surface height associated with the one or more surfaces; and
determining, by the computing system, that the one or more irregular surface criteria are satisfied when the one or more surface characteristics associated with each of the one or more surfaces satisfy one or more surface characteristic criteria based at least in part on the one or more vehicle characteristics of the vehicle.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the one or more vehicle characteristics comprise a ground clearance of the vehicle, a height of a vehicle, a width of a vehicle, a distance between a front wheel of the vehicle and a front bumper of the vehicle, or a firmness of a vehicle suspension system.
7. The computer-implemented method of any preceding claim, further comprising: determining, by the computing system, based at least in part on the image data and the sensor data, one or more irregular surface types associated with each of the one or more irregular surfaces; and
determining, by the computing system, that the one or more irregular surfaces are intentionally irregular surfaces if the one or more irregular surface types associated with the image data for an irregular surface of the one or more irregular surfaces match the one or more irregular surface types associated with the sensor data for the irregular surface.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, further comprising:
determining, by the computing system, that the one or more irregular surfaces that are not intentionally irregular surfaces are one or more unintentionally irregular surfaces; and generating, by the computing system, data associated with implementing a first notification in response to the one or more intentionally irregular surfaces and data associated with implementing a second notification in response to the one or more unintentionally irregular surfaces.
9. The computer-implemented method of any preceding claim, wherein the one or more sensors include one or more light detection and ranging (LiDAR) devices configured to generate the sensor data based at least in part on a LiDAR scan of the one or more surfaces of the one or more locations.
10. The computer-implemented method of any preceding claim, further comprising:
controlling one or more vehicle systems of a vehicle based at least in part on the map data, wherein the one or more vehicle systems comprise one or more motor systems, one or more steering systems, one or more notification systems, one or more braking systems, or one or more lighting systems.
11. The computer-implemented method of any preceding claim, further comprising:
determining, by the computing system, based at least in part on the image data, a geographic region or weather conditions associated with each of the one or more locations; and adjusting, by the computing system, the one or more irregular surface criteria based at least in part on the geographic region or the weather conditions associated with each of the one or more locations.
12. The computer-implemented method of any preceding claim, further comprising:
generating data associated with implementing one or more indications based at least in part on a vehicle being within a predetermined distance of the one or more irregular surfaces, wherein the one or more indications comprise one or more visual indications, one or more maps comprising the one or more locations of the one or more irregular surfaces, one or more textual descriptions of the one or more irregular surfaces, or one or more auditory indications associated with the one or more irregular surfaces.
13. The computer-implemented method of any preceding claim, wherein the one or more irregular surface criteria comprise an irregularity height threshold or an irregularity depth threshold, and further comprising:
accessing vehicle height data associated with a ground clearance of a vehicle; and adjusting the irregularity height threshold or the irregularity depth threshold based at least in part on the ground clearance of the vehicle.
14. The computer-implemented method of any preceding claim, further comprising:
using the map data comprising information associated with the one or more irregular surfaces to determine a navigational route for a vehicle.
15. One or more tangible non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-readable instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising:
accessing image data and sensor data, wherein the image data comprises semantic information that is descriptive of one or more geographic features of a geographic region, and wherein the sensor data is indicative of one or more surface elements associated with one or more surfaces in the geographic region; determining whether there is an association between the one or more surface elements and the semantic information that is descriptive of the one or more geographic features of the geographic region; and
generating map data for the geographic region associated with the one or more surface elements based on whether there is the association between the one or more surface elements and the semantic information that is descriptive of the one or more geographic features.
16. The one or more tangible non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein the map data comprises geographic information associated with one or more locations of the geographic region where the one or more surface elements are associated with the semantic information.
17. The one or more tangible non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15 or 16, wherein the semantic information comprises data descriptive of one or more geographic features in the geographic region, and wherein the one or more surface elements are physically separate from the one or more geographic features.
18. A computing system comprising:
one or more processors;
one or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
accessing image data and sensor data, wherein the image data comprises semantic information that is descriptive of one or more geographic features of a geographic region, and wherein the sensor data is indicative of one or more surface elements associated with one or more surfaces in the geographic region;
determining whether there is an association between the one or more surface elements and the semantic information that is descriptive of the one or more geographic features of the geographic region; and
generating map data for the geographic region associated with the one or more surface elements based on whether there is the association between the one or more surface elements and the semantic information that is descriptive of the one or more geographic features.
19. The computing system of claim 18, further comprising:
determining, based at least in part on the image data and the sensor data, one or more surface types associated with each of the one or more surface elements; and
generating the map data comprising semantic information associated with the one or more surface types of the one or more surface elements at one or more locations of the geographic region.
20. The computing system of claim 19, wherein the one or more surface types comprise one or more ground surfaces or one or more non-ground surfaces, and wherein the one or more ground surfaces comprise one or more paved ground surfaces, one or more unpaved ground surfaces, one or more sidewalk surfaces, or one or more gravel surfaces.
</claims>
</document>
