<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60T13/68,B60T17/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VOLVO TRUCK CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
FARRES, LIONEL
CARLE, Jean Sébastien
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66647382
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VEHICLE BRAKING SYSTEM WITH COMPOUND MANAGEMENT FUNCTION
</title>

<abstract>
A control method for controlling a spring loaded brake actuator (9) comprising a first chamber (Ch1) to receive a parking brake pressure (PBR) acting against a main spring (92), and a second chamber (Ch2) to receive a service brake pressure (SB) for applying a service brake force, the method comprising a circumstantial selection of one control law among a set of control laws comprising two or more compound control laws : -where the first compound control law (CL1), known as anti-compound mode, is such the service brake pressure (SB) is electronically controlled such that the resulting total braking force (F) does not exceed a first upper limit (UL1) corresponding to the force of the main spring (92) when the parking brake pressure (PBR) is substantially null, -where the second compound control law (CL2), known as controlled-compound mode, is such that the service brake pressure (SB) is electronically controlled such that the resulting total braking force (F) does not exceed a second upper limit (UL2) higher than the first upper limit.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A control method for controlling a spring loaded brake actuator (9) comprising a first chamber (Chi) to receive a parking brake pressure (PBR) acting against a main spring (92) exerting a parking brake force, and a second chamber (Ch2) to receive a service brake pressure (SB) for applying a service brake force, the spring loaded brake actuator being configured to apply a total braking force (F) to a brake caliper which is the sum of the service brake force and the parking brake force, the method comprising a circumstantial selection of one control law among a set of control laws comprising at least first and second compound control laws :
- where the first compound control law (CL1), known as anti-compound mode, is such that at least the service brake pressure (SB) is electronically controlled such that the resulting total braking force (F) does not exceed a first upper limit (UL1) corresponding to the force of the main spring (92) when the parking brake pressure (PBR) is substantially null,
- where the second compound control law (CL2), known as controlled-compound mode, is such that at least the service brake pressure (SB) is electronically controlled such that the resulting total braking force (F) does not exceed a second upper limit (UL2) higher than the first upper limit.
2. The control method according to claim 1, further comprising a first border compound control law (BCL1) for a transition from a park brake released state to a park brake applied state or for a transition from a park brake applied state to a park brake released state, where the parking brake pressure (PBR) and the service brake pressure (SB) are balanced such that the total braking force (F) equals the first upper limit (UL1) corresponding to the force of the main spring (92) when the parking brake pressure (PBR) is substantially null.
3. The control method according to any of the claims 1 and 2, wherein the set of control laws further comprises a drive domain control law (DCL) wherein the service brake pressure (SB) is controlled with no dependence from the parking brake pressure (PBR), the drive domain control law (DCL) being selected when the vehicle is under normal driving conditions.
4. The control method according to any of the claims 1 to 3, the set of control laws further comprises: - a third compound control law (CL3), wherein at least the service brake pressure (SB) is electronically controlled such that the resulting braking force (F) remains below a third upper limit (UL3) lower than the first upper limit (UL1).
5. The control method according to any of the claims 1 to 4, wherein the control of the service brake pressure (SB) is performed through software and the circumstantial selection of one control law among a set of control laws takes into account various operating and environmental conditions including at least one of the following parameters:
- vehicle speed,
- ground slope at parking place,
- temperature
- wind conditions, and
- optionally load of the tractor and/or load of the carrier and/or load of the trailer.
6. The control method according to claim 5, the control of the parking brake pressure (PBR) is also performed through software.
7. The control method according to any previous claim, wherein the circumstantial selection of one control law among a set of control laws is performed in a real-time fashion, with a decision making process taking less than 1 second, preferably less than 0,5 second.
8. The control method according to any of the claims 1 to 7, wherein there is provided, stored in a memory, a first calibration function FSP = FI (PBR) representing the force exerted by the main spring as a function of parking brake pressure (PBR).
9. The control method according to any of the claims 1 to 8, wherein there is provided, stored in a memory, a second calibration function FSB = F2 (SB) representing the force exerted by the service brake chamber as a function of the service brake pressure (SB).
10. The control method according to any of the claims 1 to 9, wherein the parking brake pressure (PBR) is first determined, either directly measured or indirectly assessed, then the force exerted by the main spring as a function of parking brake pressure is determined therefrom, and then a remaining effort up to the currently prevailing limit (UL1,UL2,UL3) is determined, and then a maximum service brake pressure (SB) is computed therefrom.
11. The control method according to any of the claims 1 to 10, wherein the second compound control law (CL2) is selected only if the foot brake pedal is depressed beyond a predetermined threshold (TH1).
12. The control method according to any previous claim, wherein the first compound control law (CL1) is selected only when the vehicle is at standstill or when the vehicle speed is below a speed threshold.
13. The control method according to any previous claim, wherein the parking brake pressure (PBR) is controlled by a first control entity and the service brake pressure (SB) is controlled either by the same first control entity or by a further control entity, the further control entity being preferably hardware-wise independent from the first control entity.
14. The control method according to claim 13, wherein the first control entity is hosted in an Electronic Parking Brake (EPB) control unit (31) of a heavy duty vehicle, and the further control entity is hosted in the EBScontrol unit.
15. A braking system for controlling a spring loaded brake actuator (9) comprising a first chamber (Chi) to receive a parking brake pressure (PBR) acting against a main spring exerting a parking brake force, and a second chamber (Ch2) to receive a service brake pressure (SB) for applying a service brake force, the spring loaded brake actuator being configured to apply a total braking force (F) to a brake caliper which is the sum of the service brake force and the parking brake force, and at least a control unit, the control unit being configured to select of one control law among a set of control laws comprising at least first and second compound control laws :
- where the first compound control law (CL1), known as anti-compound mode, is such that the parking brake pressure (PBR) and the service brake pressure (SB) are controlled such that the resulting total braking force (F) does not exceed a first upper limit (UL1) corresponding to the main spring force,
- where the second compound control law (CL2), known as controlled-compound mode, is such that the parking brake pressure (PBR) and the service brake pressure (SB) are controlled such that the resulting total braking force (F) does not exceed a second upper limit (UL2) higher than the first upper limit.
16. The braking system according to claim 15, wherein the parking brake pressure (PBR) is controlled by a first control unit (31), and the service brake pressure (SB) is controlled by the same control unit.
17. The braking system according to claim 15, wherein the parking brake pressure (PBR) is controlled by a first control unit (31), and the service brake pressure (SB) is controlled by a further control unit (32), the further control logic being preferably hardware-wise independent from the first control logic.
18. The braking system according to any one of the claims 15 to 17, further comprising a pressure sensor (71) for sensing parking brake pressure (PBR), and optionally a second pressure sensor (72) for sensing the service brake pressure (SB).
19. A Vehicle comprising a braking system according to any of the claim 15 to 18.
</claims>
</document>
