<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01M11/02,G03F1/22,G03F1/50,G03F1/52,G03F1/54
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KLA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHI, RUI-FANG
ZHANG QIANG
ZUSIN, Dmitriy
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73549649
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WAVE-FRONT ABERRATION METROLOGY OF EXTREME ULTRAVIOLET MASK INSPECTION SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A metrology system for measuring wave-front aberration of an extreme ultraviolet (EUV) mask inspection system is disclosed. The test mask includes a substrate formed from a material having substantially no reflectivity for EUV illumination, and one or more patterns formed on the substrate, the one or more patterns having a reflective portion configured to reflect EUV illumination, positioned in a common plane with an absorption portion having substantially no reflectivity for EUV illumination, on or above the substrate.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed:
1. A test mask for measuring wave-front aberration of an extreme ultraviolet (EUV) mask inspection system comprising:
a substrate formed from a material having substantially no reflectivity for EUV illumination;
one or more patterns formed on the substrate, wherein the one or more patterns comprise:
an absorption portion configured to absorb EUV illumination; and a reflective portion configured to reflect EUV illumination, wherein the reflective portion and the absorption portion are positioned within a common plane on or above the substrate.
2. The test mask of claim 1 , wherein the substrate is formed from silicon dioxide.
3. The test mask of claim 1 , wherein the absorption portion comprises one or more absorbers.
4. The test mask of claim 3, further comprising:
an antireflective coating disposed on the one or more absorbers, wherein the antireflective coating is formed from a material having substantially no reflectivity for EUV illumination.
5. The test mask of claim 3, wherein the reflective portion comprises one or more multilayer pillars formed from a plurality of periodically repeating bilayers of molybdenum and silicon, where the thickness of each layer of the periodically repeating bilayers and the periodicity of the periodically repeating bilayers are configured for reflecting EUV illumination. 6. The test mask of claim 5, wherein the one or more multilayer pillars are of a thickness equivalent to a thickness of the one or more absorbers.
7. The test mask of claim 5, wherein the one or more multilayer pillars are
embedded in the one or more absorbers.
8. The test mask of claim 4, wherein the reflective portion comprises a multilayer formed from a plurality of repeating bilayers of molybdenum and silicon.
9. The test mask of claim 8, wherein the absorption portion comprises a plurality of absorbers embedded in the multilayer formed from a plurality of repeating bilayers of molybdenum and silicon.
10. The test mask of claim 3, wherein the absorption portion comprises one or more pinholes in the reflective portion configured to expose one or more portions of the substrate.
1 1 .The test mask of claim 10, wherein the reflective portion comprises a layer of reflective material.
12. The test mask of claim 1 1 , wherein the reflective portion comprises at least one of palladium, platinum, or silver.
13. The test mask of claim 3, wherein the reflective portion comprises one or more pillars formed from a reflective material.
14. The test mask of claim 13, wherein the absorption portion comprises one or more pinholes configured to expose one or more portions of the substrate, where the one or more pinholes are disposed between the one or more pillars formed from a reflective material. 15. The test mask of claim 5, wherein the test mask further comprises one or more caps disposed on at least one of the absorption portion or the reflective portion, the one or more caps being formed from a material suitable to reduce oxidation of one or more portions of the test mask.
16. The test mask of claim 15, wherein the one or more caps are formed from
ruthenium.
17. An extreme ultraviolet (EUV) mask inspection system, comprising:
an EUV illumination source;
one or more EUV illumination optics configured to direct an EUV beam from the EUV illumination source onto a test mask, the test mask comprising a substrate formed from a material having substantially no reflectivity for EUV illumination, one or more patterns formed on the substrate, wherein the one or more patterns comprise an absorption portion configured to absorb EUV illumination and a reflective portion configured to reflect EUV illumination, wherein the absorption portion and the reflective portion are positioned within a common plane on or above the substrate, and one or more caps disposed on at least one of the absorption portion or the reflective portion, the one or more caps being formed from a material suitable to reduce oxidation of one or more portions of the test mask;
one or more detectors;
one or more EUV projection optics configured to collect EUV illumination reflected from the test mask and direct the EUV illumination onto the one or more detectors; and
one or more controllers, wherein the one or more controllers includes one or more processors communicatively coupled to the one or more detectors, wherein the one or more processors are configured to execute a set of program instructions maintained in memory, wherein the set of program instructions are configured to cause the one or more processors to: receive one or more signals from the one or more detectors indicative of the EUV illumination reflected from the test mask; and
identify one or more wave-front aberrations across the EUV beam based on the one or more signals from the one or more detectors indicative of the EUV illumination reflected from the test mask.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the substrate is formed from silicon dioxide.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the absorption portion and the reflective portion are disposed on the substrate.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the absorption portion comprises one or more absorbers coated with a material having substantially no reflectivity for EUV illumination.
21.The system of claim 19, wherein the reflective portion comprises one or more multilayer pillars formed from a plurality of periodically repeating bilayers of molybdenum and silicon, where the thickness of each layer of the periodically repeating bilayers and the periodicity of the periodically repeating bilayers are configured for reflecting EUV illumination.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the one or more multilayer pillars are of a
thickness equivalent to the thickness of the one or more absorbers.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein the one or more multilayer pillars are embedded in the one or more absorbers.
24. The system of claim 20, wherein the reflective portion comprises a multilayer formed from a plurality of repeating bilayers of molybdenum and silicon. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the absorption portion comprises a plurality of absorbers embedded in the multilayer formed from a plurality of repeating bilayers of molybdenum and silicon.
26. The system of claim 19, wherein the absorption portion comprises one or more pinholes in the reflective portion configured to expose one or more portions of the substrate.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the reflective portion comprises a layer of
reflective material.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein the reflective material comprises at least one of palladium, platinum, or silver.
29. The system of claim 19, wherein the reflective portion comprises one or more pillars formed from a reflective material.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein the absorption portion comprises one or more pinholes configured to expose one or more portions of the substrate, where the one or more pinholes are disposed between the one or more pillars formed from a reflective material.
31 .The system of claim 17, wherein the one or more processors are configured to provide one or more adjustments for adjusting at least one of the EUV
illumination source, one or more EUV illumination optics, or the one or more EUV projection optics to compensate for the one or more identified wave-front aberrations in the EUV beam.
32. A method of using an extreme ultraviolet (EUV) mask inspection system,
comprising: illuminating a test mask comprising a substrate formed from a material having substantially no reflectivity for EUV illumination, one or more patterns formed on the substrate, wherein the one or more patterns comprise an absorption portion configured to absorb EUV illumination and a reflective portion configured to reflect EUV illumination, wherein the absorption portion and the reflective portion are positioned within a common plane on or above the substrate, and one or more caps disposed on at least one of the absorption portion or the reflective portion, the one or more caps being formed from a material suitable to reduce oxidation of one or more portions of the test mask;
detecting a reflected beam;
generating one or more images based on the reflected beam;
identifying one or more wave-front aberrations across the one or more images; and
providing one or more adjustments for adjusting one or more components of the EUV inspection system.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein the substrate is formed from silicon dioxide.
34. The method of claim 32, wherein the absorption portion and the reflective portion are disposed on the substrate.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein the absorption portion comprises one or more absorbers coated with a material having substantially no reflectivity for EUV illumination.
36. The method of claim 34, wherein the reflective portion comprises one or more multilayer pillars formed from a plurality of periodically repeating bilayers of molybdenum and silicon, where the thickness of each layer of the periodically repeating bilayers and the periodicity of the periodically repeating bilayers are configured for reflecting EUV illumination. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein the one or more multilayer pillars are of a thickness equivalent to the thickness of the one or more absorbers.
38. The method of claim 36, wherein the one or more multilayer pillars are
embedded in the one or more absorbers.
39. The method of claim 35, wherein the reflective portion comprises a multilayer formed from a plurality of repeating bilayers of molybdenum and silicon.
40. The method of claim 39, wherein the absorption portion comprises a plurality of absorbers embedded in the multilayer formed from a plurality of repeating bilayers of molybdenum and silicon.
41 . The method of claim 34, wherein the absorption portion comprises one or more pinholes in the reflective portion configured to expose one or more portions of the substrate.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein the reflective portion comprises a layer of
reflective material.
43. The method of claim 42, wherein the reflective portion comprises at least one of palladium, platinum, or silver.
44. The method of claim 34, wherein the reflective portion comprises one or more pillars formed from a reflective material.
45. The method of claim 44, wherein the absorption portion comprises one or more pinholes configured to expose one or more portions of the substrate, where the one or more pinholes are disposed between the one or more pillars formed from a reflective material. 46. The method of claim 32, wherein the illuminating a test mask comprises directing an EUV incident beam onto the test mask.
</claims>
</document>
