<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/359,G01N23/223,G01N35/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DE.TEC.TOR S.R.L.
</assignee>

<inventors>
PITTA', GIUSEPPE
LA ROSA, Vanessa
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67108025
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AN APPARATUS TO OPERATE A QUALITY CONTROL IN INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION LINES, CORRESPONDING METHOD AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus (20) for carrying out a quality control on industrial production lines (10), comprising one or more apparatuses (30, 40, 50) for the measurement of properties of a product sample (C) of the aforesaid industrial production lines (10), which supply respective one or more measurement signals, the apparatus (20) comprising a processing module configured for processing the one or more measurement signals and obtaining properties of the product sample (C), the quality control being carried out as a function of said properties of the product sample (C), said one or more apparatuses (30, 40, 50) for the measurement of properties of a product sample (C) comprising : an x-ray fluorescence apparatus (30) that comprises an x-ray source (331), which emits a first x- ray beam (XB, XBC) towards the product sample (C) in a measurement environment, and a particle detector (335), which is configured for receiving a second x-ray beam (XBR) scattered by the product sample (C) and generating a first received signal supplied within the set of said respective one or more measurement signals. The apparatus (20) further comprises an optical- spectroscopy apparatus, preferably operating in the near infrared (40), which comprises a radiation source operating in the near infrared (NIR), which emits a first optleal-radiation beam towards a product sample (C), and an optical sensor for receiving a second optleal-radiation beam scattered by the product sample (C) and generating a second received signal supplied within the set of said respective one or more measurement signals.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus (20) for carrying out a quality control on industrial production lines (10), comprising one or more apparatuses (30, 40, 50; HZ) for the measurement of properties of a product sample (C) of said industrial production lines (10), which supply respective one or more measurement signals (Yl, Y2, Y3; YZ), said apparatus (20) comprising a processing module (600) configured for processing said one or more measurement signals (Yl, Y2, Y3; YZ) and obtaining properties (60) of said product sample (C) , said quality control being carried out as a function of said properties (60) of said product sample (C) , said one or more apparatuses (30, 40, 50, HZ) for the measurement of properties of a product sample (C) comprising:
- an x-ray fluorescence (XRF) apparatus (30) comprising an x-ray source (331), which emits a first x-ray beam (XB, XBC) towards said product sample (C) in a measurement environment, and a particle detector (335), which is configured for receiving a second x-ray beam (XBR) scattered by said product sample (C) and generating a first received signal (Yl) supplied within the set of said respective one or more measurement signals (Yl, Y2, Y3, YZ),
said apparatus (20) being characterized in that it further comprises:
- an optical-spectroscopy apparatus (40) operating in a frequency band belonging to the range of optical frequencies, preferably operating in the band of the near infrared, comprising an optical-radiation source, which emits a first beam of optical radiation towards a product sample (C) , and an optical sensor for receiving a second beam of radiation scattered by said product sample (C) and generating a second received signal (Y2) supplied within the set of said respective one or more measurement signals (Yl, Y2, Y3; YZ) .
2. The apparatus (20) according to claim 1, characterized in that it is configured for supplying said second received signal (Y2) within the set of said respective one or more measurement signals (Yl, Y2, Y3; YZ) that are processed to obtain properties (60) of said product sample (C) and carry out said quality control as a function of said properties (60) .
3. The apparatus (20) according to claim 1 or claim 2, characterized in that it is configured for driving operation of said x-ray fluorescence apparatus (30) as a function of the values of said second received signal (Y2) generated in said opticalspectroscopy apparatus (40), in particular for enabling emission by said x-ray fluorescence apparatus (30) .
4. The apparatus (20) according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that it is configured for driving said x-ray source (331) and said source of optical radiation to emit, respectively, an x-ray beam (XB) towards the product sample (C) and an optical-radiation beam towards the same product sample (C) at one and the same time.
5. The apparatus (20) according to claim 1, characterized in that it comprises an artificial-vision apparatus (50), which includes an image acquisition and processing system configured for acquiring and processing images of said product sample (C) in said measurement environment and generating a third received signal (Y3) that can be analysed for classifying said product sample (C) and/or for driving said x-ray fluorescence apparatus (30) .
6. The apparatus (20) according to claim 5, characterized in that it comprises at least one of the following : - a monochromatic environmental light source configured for illuminating said measurement environment, preferably a blue monochromatic environmental light source, and
- a module configured for driving said monochromatic environmental light source.
7 . The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises a target (HZ) made of a material with high atomic number and/or a radio-luminescent material positioned beyond a distal surface of the sample (C) and along a trajectory of the first x-ray beam (XB, XBC) and/or second x-ray beam (XBR) .
8. The apparatus (20) according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that said x-ray fluorescence apparatus (30) comprises:
an XRF-control module (300) configured for driving at least one of the following operations:
- modifying an angle (a) between an axis of said first x-ray beam (XB) and an axis of observation of the detector (35) in order to modify a position, in particular depth and/or horizontal position, of a focus (F) of said first x-ray beam (XB, XBC) , and
- varying an angle of incidence calculated between the axis of the beam (XB) and an axis (P) perpendicular to the surface of the product sample (C) ;
and a further sub-arrangement for displacing the axis of observation to an angle of observation with respect to the perpendicular axis (P) in an independent way .
9 . The apparatus (20) according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that said x-ray fluorescence apparatus (30) comprises an XRF-control module (300) configured for driving at least one of the following operations:
- modifying an intensity of a current in order to modify an intensity of said first x-ray beam (XB, XBC) , and
- modifying a position of a mobile element.
10. A method of quality control on industrial production lines, comprising:
- providing an apparatus (20) according to any one of claims 1 to 9;
- defining a set of significant parameters (60) that enables recognition of one or more samples (C, C' , 12) of product being processed in a given time interval ;
- receiving at least two signals (Y) from among said first received signal (Yl), said second received signal (Y2), and said third received signal (Y3, YZ); and
- analysing said at least two signals (Y) as a function of said set of significant parameters (60) .
11. The method according to claim 10, characterized by controlling (300) said XRF apparatus (30) via at least one of the following:
- a value of length of a geometrical dimension of the object measured via the vision apparatus (50); and
- a composition of an object the presence or absence of which is detected via the opticalspectroscopy apparatus (40) .
12. The method according to claim 10 or claim 11, characterized by controlling (300) a current intensity in order to modify an intensity of said first x-ray beam (XB) as a function of said at least two signals (Y) from among said first received signal (Yl), said second received signal (Y2), and said third received signal (Y3; YZ) . 13. The method according to any one of claims 10 to 12, characterized in that it comprises:
- driving said monochromatic environmental light source configured for illuminating said measurement environment, preferably with blue monochromatic environmental light, and
- filtering said second received signal (Y2) and said third received signal (Y3; YZ), said filtering in particular comprising removing a background.
14. The method according to any one of claims 10 to 13, characterized by driving said x-ray source (331) and said optical-radiation source to emit, respectively, an x-ray beam (XB, XBC) towards a product sample (C) and an optical-radiation beam towards a product sample (C) at one and the same time.
15. The method according to any one of claims 10 to 14, characterized in that said products (C, C' , 12) are foodstuff products and said industrial production line (10) is a foodstuff-packaging line.
16. A computer program product that can be loaded into the memory of at least one processing device and includes portions of software code for executing the steps of the method according to any one of claims 10 to 15 when the product is run on at least one processing device.
</claims>
</document>
