<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01J5/00,G01S11/00,G08G1/052,H04N5/33
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SYSTEM
</assignee>

<inventors>
AHMED SARA
HELFFRICH, JEROME
BITEN, Ayetullah Bahadir
DESSOUKY, Samer
BALCAR, Zachary
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72752064
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PASSIVE INFRARED SENSING AND DETECTION FOR TRAFFIC
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for passive infrared sensing and detection of vehicular traffic. Vehicle parameters are detected using thermal detection states of pixels of an infrared array sensor. The vehicle parameters can include a velocity of a vehicle. A vehicle record that includes the vehicle parameters can be provided, for example, by a computing device in connection with the infrared array sensor.
</abstract>

<claims>
Therefore, the following is claimed:
1. A system for infrared sensing and detection, the system comprising:
an infrared array sensor comprising pixels arranged in a plurality of columns, wherein a respective column comprises a number of the pixels;
a computing device; and
a data store comprising executable instructions that, when executed, cause the computing device to at least:
determine at least one vehicle parameter based at least in part on localized thermal emissions detected by the infrared sensor array, wherein the at least one vehicle parameter comprises a velocity of a vehicle; and
provide a vehicle record comprising the at least one vehicle parameter.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing device to at least:
identify a first front thermal detection based at least in part on a thermal detection state of a first column changing from negative to positive, wherein the first front thermal detection is associated with a first time;
identify a second front thermal detection based at least in part on a thermal detection state of a second column changing from negative to positive, wherein the second front thermal detection is associated with a second time; and
determine the velocity of the vehicle based at least in part on the first front thermal detection and the second front thermal detection.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing device to at least:
transmit, to a vehicle warning device, a signal that causes the vehicle warning device to activate for a time period, wherein the time period is identified based at least in part on the velocity of the vehicle.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing device to at least:
transmit the vehicle record to a client device or a server device, wherein the vehicle record is transmitted wirelessly using a personal area network, a local area network, or a cellular network.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing device to at least:
identify a front thermal detection based at least in part on a first column thermal detection state changing from positive to negative;
identify a rear thermal detection based at least in part on a second column thermal detection state changing from positive to negative; and
determine a vehicle length based at least in part on a time between the front thermal detection and the rear thermal detection.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing device to at least:
determine a vehicle height based at least in part on a maximum number of pixels activated in a particular column.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing device to at least:
determine a vehicle classification based at least in part on a vehicle height and a vehicle length.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing device to at least:
determine an average pixel temperature for a pixel; and
center temperature data for the pixel by subtracting the average pixel temperature for the pixel from a previous measured temperature of the pixel.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing device to at least:
collect a set of vehicle data; and
train a neural network to classify vehicles using the vehicle record, wherein the training comprises machine learning based at least in part on a set of vehicle data collected using the infrared array sensor.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions include a predetermined set of distances, a respective distance of the predetermined set of distances indicating an expected vehicle distance from the infrared array sensor, wherein a selected one of the predetermined set of distances is utilized to configure the system for infrared sensing and detection for accuracy at the selected one of the predetermined set of distances.
11. A method for infrared sensing and detection, the method comprising:
detecting at least one vehicle parameter based at least in part on changes in thermal detection states of pixels of an infrared array sensor, wherein the at least one vehicle parameter comprises a velocity of a vehicle; and
providing, using a computing device electronically connected to the infrared array sensor, a vehicle record comprising the at least one vehicle parameter.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
transmitting, to a vehicle warning device, a signal that causes the vehicle warning device to activate for a time period, wherein the time period is identified based at least in part on the velocity of the vehicle.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
transmitting the vehicle record to a device remote from a traffic detection device comprising the infrared array sensor, the vehicle record being transmitted wirelessly using a personal area network, a local area network, or a cellular network.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
training a neural network to classify vehicles using the vehicle record, wherein the training comprises machine learning based at least in part on a set of vehicle data collected using the infrared array sensor.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
identifying a first thermal detection based at least in part on a first column thermal detection state of the infrared array sensor changing from positive to negative; identifying a second thermal detection based at least in part on a second column thermal detection state of the infrared array sensor changing from positive to negative; and
determining a vehicle length based at least in part on a time between the first thermal detection and the second thermal detection, wherein the a first column thermal detection state and the a first column thermal detection state are identified for one of: a single column, or two different columns.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
determining a vehicle height based at least in part on a maximum number of pixels or an average number of pixels activated in a particular column of the infrared array sensor.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
determining a vehicle classification is determined based at least in part on a vehicle length and a vehicle height being input into a vehicle classification neural network, where the vehicle parameters further comprise the vehicle length and the vehicle height determined based at least in part on changes in the thermal detection states of the pixels of the infrared array sensor.
18. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
determining an average pixel temperature for a pixel of the infrared array sensor; and
centering temperature data for the pixel by subtracting the average pixel temperature for the pixel from a previous measured temperature of the pixel.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
identifying a thermal detection state of a first column of the infrared array sensor based at least in part on a thermal detection identified for at least one pixel of the first column.
20. The method of claim 11, further comprising:
determining a vehicle volume based at least in part on height and width parameters determined based at least in part on pixel detections of the infrared array sensor and a width value, wherein the width value is less than or equal to a lane width.
</claims>
</document>
