<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G16H10/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DENTLYTEC G.P.L.
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOLDENTOUCH, LEV
GRAD, YGAEL
LEHR, BLANC ZACH
PESACH, BENNY
REUVENNY, AMITAI
SHEMULY, DANA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71520962
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DENTAL DEVICE WITH PROBE AND METHODS ASSOCIATED THEREWITH
</title>

<abstract>
Some embodiments of the present disclosure include, for example, a method for automatically entering content into a periodontal chart. Such methods include, for example, providing an Intra Oral Scanner (IOS) with an elongate probe extending therefrom, contacting a first point inside an oral cavity with the probe while scanning the cavity with the IOS, determining a position of the first point based on the scanning to determine a position in space of the elongate probe, calculating content to be entered into a periodontal chart, and entering the content into the periodontal chart. Related apparatus and methods are also described.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for automatically entering content into a periodontal chart, the method comprising:
providing an Intra Oral Scanner (IOS) with an elongate probe extending therefrom;
contacting a first point inside an oral cavity with the probe while scanning the cavity with the IOS;
determining a position of the first point based on the scanning to determine a position in space of the elongate probe;
calculating content to be entered into a periodontal chart; and
entering the content into the periodontal chart.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the content includes data selected from a group consisting of coordinates of the position, a distance value, a tooth number, presence of blood, presence of plaque, presence of debris, presence of suppuration, indication of a missing tooth, presence of decay, a conductance value, an indication of roughness of a surface, an indication of tooth movement, a depth of a pocket, a CAL (clinical attachment level/loss) value, a mobility value, a furcation value, an indication of shade at the position, an indication of color at the position, an angle a tooth is rotated with respect to a tooth arch, an indication of presence of a crown, an indication of presence of a bridge, an indication of presence of a filling, an indication of a type of filling, and a gingival recession value.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the position of the first point is based on image processing of an image of the probe captured by the IOS.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein determining the position of the first point is based on image processing of a plurality of images of the probe captured by the IOS.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the position of the first point is based on calculating a location of a tip of the probe.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein:
contacting the first point inside an oral cavity with the probe comprises contacting a plurality of first points; and determining the position of the first point comprises determining a position of each of the first points based on the scanning to determine a position in space of the elongate probe.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the entering the content into the periodontal chart comprises entering automatically by a computer program.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
moving the probe along a plurality of consecutive teeth;
detecting locations of interproximal gaps; and
detecting tooth type based on a distance between the locations of the interproximal gaps.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising
moving the probe along a plurality of consecutive teeth;
detecting locations of interproximal gaps; and
detecting tooth number based on a distance between the locations of the interproximal gaps.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising automatically entering tooth number or tooth type in a periodontal chart.
11. A method for automatically entering content in a periodontal chart comprising:
providing an Intra Oral Scanner (IOS) with an elongate probe extending therefrom;
moving the probe along a plurality of consecutive teeth;
detecting locations of interproximal gaps;
calculating content to be entered into a periodontal chart; and
entering the content into the periodontal chart.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising automatically detecting tooth type by calculating a distance between locations of the interproximal gaps.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising calculating a radius of curvature of a segment of a tooth arc and automatically detecting tooth type using the curvature.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising calculating a depth of insertion of the probe into the interproximal gap and automatically detecting tooth type using the depth of insertion.
15. The method of claim 11, further automatically determining tooth number in a tooth arc using the locations of the interproximal gaps.
16. A method for automatically entering content into a periodontal chart, the method comprising:
providing an Intra Oral Scanner (IOS) with an elongate probe extending therefrom;
contacting a plurality of first points inside an oral cavity with the probe while scanning the cavity with the IOS;
determining a position of each of the plurality of first points based on the scanning to determine a position in space of the elongate probe;
calculating content to be entered into a periodontal chart; and
entering the content into the periodontal chart.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein determining a position of each of the plurality of first points is based on image processing of images of the probe captured by the IOS.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein determining a position of each of the plurality of first points is based on calculating locations of a tip of the probe.
19. An IOS scanner for automatically entering content into a periodontal chart, comprising: a body having a head;
at least one imager suitable for intra-oral scanning from the head;
a probe extending from the head and within a field of view of the at least one imager; and a calculation system for:
determining a position in space of a tip of the probe; and
calculating content to be entered into a periodontal chart.
20. A method for automatically measuring a width of an interproximal gap between teeth comprising:
providing an Intra Oral Scanner (IOS) with an elongate probe extending therefrom;
contacting a first side of an interproximal gap between a first tooth and a second tooth at a first location, a tip of the probe touching the first tooth;
using the IOS to provide coordinates of the first location;
contacting a second side of the interproximal gap at a second location, a tip of the probe touching the second tooth;
using the IOS to provide coordinates of the second location; and
calculating a distance between the first location and the second location, thereby calculating the width of the interproximal gap.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the tip of the probe comprises is shaped as a thin shape.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the tip of the probe comprises a thin shape comprising a thickness in a range of 20-200 microns.
23. The method of claim 20, and further comprising:
capturing images of the probe; and
wherein using the IOS to provide coordinates of the first location and using the IOS to provide coordinates of the second location are based on image processing of images comprising the probe when the probe contacts the first side of the interproximal gap and when the probe contacts the second side of the interproximal gap.
24. A method for automatically measuring a width of a black triangle between teeth comprising:
providing an Intra Oral Scanner (IOS) with an elongate probe extending therefrom;
contacting a first side of a black triangle interproximal gap between a first tooth and a second tooth at a first location, a tip of the probe touching the first tooth;
using the IOS to provide coordinates of the first location;
contacting a second side of the black triangle at a second location, a tip of the probe touching the second tooth;
using the IOS to provide coordinates of the second location; and
calculating a distance between the first location and the second location, thereby calculating the width of the black triangle.
25. A dental probe for measuring an interproximal gap between teeth, comprising:
a body having a head, the body elongated in a first direction; at least one imager configured for imaging in a second direction different from the first direction; and
a probe extending in the second direction and within a field of view of the imager;
wherein a tip of the probe is sized and shaped to enter, at least partly, into an interproximal gap between teeth.
26. The dental probe of claim 25, wherein the tip of the probe is shaped as a flat strip with a thickness in a range of 20-200 microns.
27. The dental probe of claim 25, wherein the tip of the probe is shaped to narrow toward a distal end of the tip.
28. The dental probe of claim 25, wherein the tip of the probe is shaped to narrow linearly toward a distal end of the tip.
29. The dental probe of claim 25, wherein the tip of the probe is shaped as a three dimensional cone toward a distal end of the tip.
30. The dental probe of claim 25, wherein the tip of the probe is shaped to narrow in a plurality of discrete steps toward a distal end of the tip.
31. The dental probe of claim 25, wherein the tip of the probe comprises a plurality of concentric cylinders.
32. The dental probe of claim 25, and further comprising a shim attached to the probe.
33. The dental probe of claim 32, wherein the shim is shaped as a flat strip with a thickness in a range of 20-200 microns.
34. The dental probe of claim 32, wherein the shim is shaped to narrow toward a distal end of the tip.
35. The dental probe of claim 32, wherein the shim is shaped to narrow linearly toward a distal end of the shim.
36. The dental probe of claim 32, wherein the shim is shaped to narrow in a plurality of discrete steps toward a distal end of the shim.
37. A method for automatically measuring an interproximal gap between teeth comprising: providing an elongate probe;
inserting the probe into an interproximal gap so as to touch both a first tooth and a second tooth simultaneously;
imaging the probe touching both the first tooth and the second tooth simultaneously; determining how deep the probe entered the interproximal gap; and
calculating a width of the interproximal gap based on how deep the probe entered the interproximal gap.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the elongate probe is comprised in an Intra Oral Scanner (IOS).
39. The method of claim 38, wherein determining how deep the probe entered the interproximal gap comprises using the IOS to determine how deep the probe entered the interproximal gap.
40. The method of claim 37, wherein determining how deep the probe entered the interproximal gap comprises determining by image processing.
41. A method for automatically determining roughness of a surface in an oral cavity, the method comprising:
providing an Intra Oral Scanner (IOS) with an elongate probe extending therefrom;
sliding a tip of the probe along a surface in the oral cavity; and
using the IOS to measure roughness of a trace of the path of the tip;
thereby determining roughness of the surface.
42. The method of claim 41, further comprising capturing images of the probe, wherein determining roughness of the trace of the path of the tip comprises determining by image processing and tracking the path of the tip.
43. The method of claim 41, wherein using the IOS to measure roughness is based on image processing of images of the probe captured by the IOS.
44. The method of claim 41, wherein using the IOS to measure roughness is based on calculating locations of a tip of the probe.
45. The method of claim 41, wherein using the IOS to measure roughness comprises analyzing a signal from a pressure sensor attached to the probe.
46. The method of claim 41, further comprising detecting a location where the tip of the probe passes from sliding over a surface having a first category of roughness to a surface having a second category of roughness, wherein the first category and the second category are different categories selected from a group of roughness categories consisting of: rough and smooth.
47. The method of claim 41, further comprising detecting a location where the tip of the probe passes from sliding over a surface having a smooth surface with protrusions or dips in the surface having amplitude of less than 10 microns to having a rough surface with protrusions or dips in the surface having amplitude of more than 10 microns.
48. The method of claim 46, and further comprising detecting a location of a cementum enamel junction.
49. A dental probe for automatically determining roughness of a surface in an oral cavity, comprising:
a body having a head, the body elongated in a first direction;
at least one imager configured for imaging in a second direction different from the first direction;
a probe extending in the second direction and within a field of view of the imager; and a calculation system configured for:
determining a position in space of a tip of the probe; and
measuring roughness of a trace of a path of the tip of the probe.
50. The dental probe of claim 49, and further comprising a pressure sensor attached to the probe, arranged to measure pressure on the probe.
</claims>
</document>
