<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01W1/00,G01W1/02,G01W1/10,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LOON
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEHROOZI, CYRUS
GEORGE, DANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70458162
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEASURING ATMOSPHERIC CONDITIONS USING MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for determining atmospheric conditions. In one aspect, a method includes receiving data relating to atmospheric conditions collected at a particular altitude located within the stratosphere (602), providing the data to a machine -learned model that has been trained using a training data set collected in a controlled environment (604), determining, by the machine -learned model, atmospheric conditions data for the particular altitude based on the data collected for the particular altitude (606), and storing the atmospheric conditions data for the particular altitude (608).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining atmospheric conditions comprising:
receiving, by an onboard computer processing unit of a platform operating in the stratosphere or upper troposphere, data relating to atmospheric conditions collected at a particular altitude, the particular altitude being located within the stratosphere or upper troposphere;
providing the received data to a machine -learned model of the onboard computer processing unit, the machine-learned model having been trained using a training data set collected in a controlled environment physically separate from the platform operating in the stratosphere;
determining, by the machine-learned model of the onboard computer processing unit, atmospheric conditions data for the particular altitude based on the data collected for the particular altitude;
storing the atmospheric conditions data for the particular altitude in memory of the onboard computer processing unit; and
either using the stored atmospheric conditions data to control equipment operation of the platform, or transmitting the stored atmospheric conditions data to a remote user device .
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the atmospheric conditions comprise an ambient temperature at the particular altitude and the atmospheric conditions data for the particular altitude is temperature data for the particular altitude.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein:
the atmospheric conditions comprise an absolute pressure at the particular altitude and the atmospheric conditions data for the particular altitude is pressure data for the particular altitude, and the pressure data and temperature data for the particular altitude are interdependent such that the data collected at the particular altitude depends on both temperature and pressure at the particular altitude.
4. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein:
the data comprises a set of time-of-flight measurements, each time-of-flight measurement of the set including a sonic pulse between a transmitting transducer and receiving transducer, and
each pulse is defined in part by a pulse waveform and a characteristic shape of the pulse waveform.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the shape of the pulse waveform includes an amplitude of the pulse waveform.
6. The method of claim 4 or 5, wherein determining temperature data and pressure data for the particular altitude based on the data collected for the particular altitude is based in part on the characteristic shape of the waveform for each pulse in the set of pulses in the collected data.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the amplitude of the received pulse waveform is reduced with respect to a transmitted pulse waveform as absolute pressure decreases for a constant atmospheric temperature.
8. The method of any of claims 4-6, further comprising:
collecting the data using a sonic anemometer located at the particular altitude; and wherein the set of pulses are ultrasonic pulses.
9. The method of any of claims 3-8, wherein the temperature data for the particular altitude is an atmospheric temperature and the pressure data is an absolute pressure at the particular altitude.
10. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the controlled environment for collecting the training data set is a thermal vacuum chamber.
11. The method of any of the preceding claims, further comprising transmitting the data relating to atmospheric conditions collected at the particular altitude to a ground-based user device.
12. A system for determining atmospheric conditions comprising:
an altitude detection device;
a positioning mechanism;
a wind sensor package, wherein the wind sensor package is positioned at an altitude using the positioning mechanism that is measurable by the altitude detection device; and
one or more computers in communication with the wind sensor package, positioning mechanism, and altitude detection device, and configured to: receive data relating to atmospheric conditions collected by the wind sensor package at a particular altitude, the particular altitude located within the stratosphere or upper troposphere and determined in part by a position determined by the positioning mechanism of the wind sensor package and altitude data collected by the altitude detection device;
introduce the data to a machine -learned model, the machine -learned model having been trained using a training data set collected in a controlled environment physically separate from the system;
determine, by the machine-learned model, atmospheric conditions data for the particular altitude based on the data collected for the particular altitude; and
store the atmospheric conditions data for the particular altitude.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the atmospheric conditions comprise an ambient temperature at the particular altitude and the atmospheric conditions data for the particular altitude is temperature data for the particular altitude.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the atmospheric conditions comprise an absolute pressure at the particular altitude and the atmospheric conditions data for the particular altitude is pressure data for the particular altitude, and
wherein the pressure data and temperature data for the particular altitude are interdependent such that the data collected at the particular altitude depends on both temperature and pressure at the particular altitude.
15. The system of any of claims 12-14, wherein the one or more computers are further configured to either use the stored atmospheric conditions data to control equipment operation of the platform, or transmit the stored atmospheric conditions data to a remote user device.
16. The system of any of claims 12-15, wherein the wind sensor package includes a sonic anemometer.
17. The system of any of claims 12-16, wherein:
the positioning mechanism is connected to the wind sensor package by a tether; and the positioning mechanism and tether are configured to position the wind sensor package at a particular altitude located in the upper troposphere or stratosphere in response to an instruction from the one or more computers.
18. The system of any of claims 12-17, further comprising a balloon, wherein:
the one or more computers, the positioning mechanism, and the altitude detection device comprise a main payload of the balloon; and
the wind sensor package is attached to the positioning mechanism in the main payload by a tether.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein:
the wind sensor package is in data communication via a wireless data link to the main payload; and
the main payload is in data communication with one or more remote users via a communication link different from the wireless data link.
</claims>
</document>
