<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/78,G06F30/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VOLKSWAGEN
GOEPEL ELECTRONIC
</assignee>

<inventors>
AAL, ANDREAS
BUSSE, HOSEA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66448304
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RECONFIGURABLE SYSTEM-ON-CHIP
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to a system-on-chip, SOC, comprising: a first sub-circuit having a defined interface and a defined fixed-hardware functionality; a second reconfigurable subcircuit being signal-connected via the interface to the first sub-circuit to exchange signals therewith; and (iii) one or more terminals for electrically connecting the SOC to its periphery. The second sub-circuit is configured as an interface circuit between the one or more terminals and the first sub-circuit. The first sub-circuit is split into a plurality of individual first circuit blocks and the second sub-circuit is split into a plurality of individual second circuit blocks. Furthermore, at least one of said first circuit block is signal- connected via one or more signal connections, each running through one or more of the second circuit blocks, to one or more other first circuit blocks or one or more of the terminals. One or more of said signal connections are reconfigurable, preferably dynamically and/or reversibly, by means of the respective one or more second circuit blocks pertaining to the respective signal connection, such that the SOC is reconfigurable before or during its operation by way of reconfiguring at least one of said second circuit blocks.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. System-on-chip, SOC, comprising:
a first sub-circuit having a defined interface and a defined fixed-hardware functionality;
a second reconfigurable sub-circuit being signal-connected via the interface to the first sub-circuit to exchange signals therewith; and
one or more terminals for electrically connecting the SOC to its periphery;
wherein:
the second sub-circuit is configured as an interface circuit between the one or more terminals and the first sub-circuit;
the first sub-circuit is split into a plurality of individual first circuit blocks; the second sub-circuit is split into a plurality of individual second circuit blocks; and
at least one of said first circuit blocks is signal-connected via one or more signal connections, each running through one or more of the second circuit blocks, to one or more other first circuit blocks or one or more of the terminals; and
one or more of said signal connections are reconfigurable by means of the respective one or more second circuit blocks pertaining to the respective signal connection, such that the SOC is reconfigurable before or during its operation by way of reconfiguring at least one of said second circuit blocks.
2. The SOC of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the SOC is adapted to dynamically reconfigure itself during its operation by reconfiguring said at least one second circuit block based on a machine-learning based reconfiguration process.
3. The SOC of claim 2, wherein the SOC is adapted to apply the machine-learning based reconfiguration process for dynamically determining for a current or upcoming operational scenario of the SOC a respective optimized configuration among a set of multiple possible configurations of two or more of said second circuit blocks in dependence of the values of one or more input parameters defining that operational scenario.
4. The SOC of any one of the preceding claims, wherein a first subset of the second circuit blocks is implemented as a respective fixed-hardware circuit block and a disjoint second subset of the second circuit blocks is implemented as a respective reconfigurable circuit block.
5. The SOC of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the second sub-circuit is further configured as an integrated testing unit to test said fixed-hardware functionality of the first sub-circuit by applying one or more input signals to the first circuit and evaluating one or more output signals received via the interface from the first sub-circuit in response to the one or more input signals for conformance with one or more predetermined test criteria.
6. The SOC of claim 4 and 5, wherein:
two or more of the circuit blocks in the first subset of the second circuit blocks each implement a respective specific test instrument for testing a related aspect of said fixed-hardware functionality of the first sub-circuit; and
two or more circuit blocks in the second subset of the second circuit blocks are reconfigurable such as to selectively connect these test instruments to the first sub-circuit in order to selectively enable its testing by the respective one or more connected test instruments.
7. The SOC of claim 5 or 6, wherein the signal connection between the first and the second sub-circuits comprises one or more dedicated measurement lines that are configured exclusively for testing, measuring or monitoring the first sub-circuit or its functionality at respective predetermined measurement points within the first sub circuit without controlling or otherwise influencing said functionality.
8. The SOC of any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least a subset of the first circuit blocks each implements a respective specific selectable predefined functional feature of a feature set of the first sub-circuit; and
one or more of the second circuit blocks are reconfigurable such as to selectively connect the first circuit blocks of said subset of the first circuit blocks to other second circuit blocks or one or more of the terminals in order to selectively enable the SOC to perform the respective one or more functional features of the respective connected ones of these first circuit blocks.
9. The SOC of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the SOC is configured such that any signal between the one or more terminals and the first sub-circuit passes through the second sub-circuit, which thus forms a sole interface circuit between the one or more terminals and the first sub-circuit.
10. The SOC of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the second sub-circuit is further configured to perform one or more of the following functions in relation to the first sub-circuit:
measure or monitor one or more signals or electrical properties of the first sub circuit;
control or feed-back control the first sub-circuit;
substitute one or more functionalities of the first sub-circuit by performing them in the second sub-circuit instead of the first sub-circuit;
substitute one or more functionalities of a reprogrammable portion of the first sub circuit by reprogramming that portion with program data being present in the second sub-circuit; or
extend one or more functionalities of the first sub-circuit by performing one or more extensions of functionalities of the first sub-circuit.
1 1. The SOC of claim 10, wherein the functionality of the first sub-circuit to be substituted is a functionality that was detected by an error detection functionality of the SOC as being defect.
12. The SOC of claim 10 or 11 , wherein the second sub-circuit is further configured to substitute or extend a test functionality being implemented in the first sub-circuit itself, at least in parts.
13. The SOC of any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least one of the signal connections between the first and the second sub-circuits is an electrical connection that comprises one or more impedance matching devices being configured to optimize a proper transmission of RF-signals over said electrical connection.
14. The SOC of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the SOC is further configured to:
protect data to be communicated between the first and the second sub-circuits over the signal connection by means of data encryption; and/or
to monitor and control signals to be exchanged between with the SOC's periphery and the first sub-circuit based on predetermined access control rules.
15. The SOC of any one of the preceding claims, wherein: the second-sub-circuit further comprises an energy-management functionality for managing the supply of energy to the first sub-circuit or parts thereof; and the energy-management functionality is configured to perform one or more of the following energy control tasks in response to receiving a respective energy control signal:
selectively switch on or off the respective supply of energy to one or more selected circuit portions of the first sub-circuit;
selectively cause one or more selected circuit portions of the first sub-circuit to transition into a respective low-energy mode of operation;
selectively reroute at least parts of a supply of total available energy to one or more selected portions of the first sub-circuit, such that the energy is made available only or predominantly to those selected portions while the energy supply to non-selected portions is interrupted or reduced accordingly;
selectively connect a reserve energy supply, a device or circuit configured to reduce the supply of energy, or an energy regulating circuit to a respective energy supply path of one or more selected portions of the first sub-circuit to achieve an increase, a reduction or a regulation, respectively, of the supply of energy to the one or more selected portions of the first sub-circuit.
16. The SOC of claim 15, wherein the SOC itself is further configured to generate the energy control signal based on a measurement of a flow of electrical energy through one or more of the terminals or over one or more electrical connections between the second sub-circuit and the first sub-circuit.
17. The SOC of claim 15, wherein the energy-management functionality is further configured to:
receive the energy control signal in the form of an application-specific energy control signal from a host in the periphery of the SOC, when the host is executing a corresponding application program;
determine, based on said energy control signal, one or more of said energy control tasks and sub-circuits or circuit blocks thereof to be impacted by such one or more tasks; and
perform said determined one or more energy control tasks in relation to said determined one or more sub-circuits or circuit blocks thereof.
</claims>
</document>
