<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16B20/20,G16B20/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MERCK & COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHAO, WEILONG
SHER, XINWEI
WILLIAMS, SYBIL
CRISTESCU, RAZVAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69326649
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR THE PRECISE IDENTIFICATION OF IMMUNOGENIC TUMOR NEOANTIGENS
</title>

<abstract>
An immunogenic neoantigen peptide can be identified by receiving data characterizing a neoantigen peptide from a subject. Thereafter, a naturally processed (NP) antigen predictor (NP-predictor) score can be generated using a machine learning model trained using data derived from mass spectrometry of isolated peptides eluted from at least one major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecule. A T-epitope predictor score can be generated independently using a second machine learning model trained using experimentally characterized peptides recognized by T-cells. Additionally, a MHC binding score can be generated using a third machine learning model. The scores generated by the machine learning models can be incorporated into a composite score for each neoantigen peptide based on each of the NP-predictor score, the T-epitope predictor score, and the MHC binding score, wherein the composite score identifies one or more immunogenic neoantigen peptides.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for identifying an immunogenic neoantigen peptide, the method being implemented by one or more data processors forming part of at least one computing device and comprising:
receiving data characterizing a neoantigen peptide from a subject;
generating, using a first machine learning model and for each neoantigen peptide, a naturally processed (NP) antigen predictor (NP-predictor) score, wherein the first machine learning model is trained using data derived from mass spectrometry of isolated peptides eluted from at least one major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecule; generating, using a second machine learning model and for each neoantigen peptide, a T-epitope predictor score, wherein the second machine learning model is trained using experimentally characterized peptides recognized by T-cells;
generating, using a third machine learning model and for each neoantigen peptide, a score predicting affinity of the neoantigen peptide for binding an MHC molecule (MHC binding score); and
generating, for each neoantigen peptide, a composite score based on each of the NP-predictor score, the T-epitope predictor score, and the MHC binding score, wherein the composite score identifies one or more immunogenic neoantigen peptides.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the neoantigen peptide is identified by: obtaining a sample from the subject, wherein the sample is derived from a cancer cell;
determining a nucleotide sequence of one or more nucleic acids derived from the sample;
translating the nucleotide sequence into an encoded peptide sequence; and identifying a neoantigen peptide, wherein the neoantigen peptide comprises a peptide sequence with at least one amino acid that differs from a corresponding wild-type peptide sequence.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein obtaining the nucleotide sequence is performed using at least one of exome, transcriptome, or whole genome sequencing.
4. The method of claim 2 or 3, further comprising determining the abundance of the neoantigen peptide using exome, transcriptome, or whole genome sequencing.
5. The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the first machine learning model is a neural network.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the neural network is a convolutional neural network, a recurrent neural network, or a deep learning neural network.
7. The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the MHC molecule is a class I or a class II.
8. The method of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the second machine learning model is selected from a group consisting of a support vector machine, a Bayesian classifier, a random forest model, a logistic regression model, a boosting classifier model, and a neural network.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the second machine learning model is independently selected for a specific MHC Class I human leukocyte antigen (HLA) glycoprotein, MHC Class II human HLA, or a mouse H2 glycoprotein.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the HLA glycoprotein is a HLA subtype selected from the group consisting of HLAA, HLA-B, HLA-C, HLA-DRB, HLA-DPA, HLA-DPB, HLA-DQA, HLA-DQB, H2-Db, and H2-Kb.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the HLA subtype is a specific HLA allele to four digits.
12. The method of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the experimentally characterized peptides recognized by T-cells are experimentally characterized by a human T-cell assay.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the peptide is a 9-mer antigen peptide.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the T-cell assay measures cytokine release, cytotoxicity, or qualitative T-cell binding to an antigen presenting cell (APC). .
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the cytokine is selected from the group consisting of interferon gamma (IFNy), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFa), interleukin-2 (IL-2), interleukin-4 (IL-4), interleukin-5 (IL-5), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL- 8), interleukin- 10 (IL-10), interleukin- 17 (IL-17), interleukin-21 (IL-21), interleukin-22 (IL-22), granzyme A, and granzyme B.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the qualitative T-cell binding is determined by MHC multimer staining.
17. The method of any one of claims 12 to 16, wherein the T-cell assay is performed ex vivo or in vitro.
18. The method of any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein the experimentally characterized peptides recognized by T-cells are selected from the Immune Epitope Database (IEDB).
19. The method of any one of claims 12 to 18, further comprising subjecting the experimentally characterized peptides recognized by T-cells to dimensionality reduction.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the dimensionality reduction comprises principal component analysis (PCA), singular value decomposition (SVD), or non negative matrix factorization (NMF).
21. The method of claim any one of claims 12 to 20, wherein the T-cell assay readout is positive or negative
22. The method of any one of claims 1 to 21, further comprising separating a neoantigen peptide longer than nine amino acids into segments of nine amino acids with a same sequence order.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the nine 9-mer neoantigens serve as the input for the third machine learning model.
24. The method of any one of claims 1 to 23, wherein the third machine learning model is a neural network.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the neural network source is NetMHC.
26. The method of any one of claims 1 to 25, further comprising generating, for each neoantigen peptide, an ImmunoGen Score determined by a summation of the NPpredictor score, and the T-epitope predictor score.
27. The method of any one of claims 1 to 25 wherein the composite score is generated, for each neoantigen peptide, by a summation of the NP -predictor score, the Tepitope predictor score, and the MHC binding score.
28. The method of any one of claims 1 to 26, wherein the composite score is generated, for each neoantigen peptide, by an orthogonal scoring matrix comprising: generating, for each neoantigen peptide, an orthogonal rank for the
ImmunoGen S core ;
generating, for each neoantigen peptide, an orthogonal rank for the MHC binding score;
identifying neoantigen peptides with a high orthogonal rank for the
ImmunoGen S core ;
identifying neoantigen peptides with a high orthogonal rank for the MHC binding score; and
selecting one or more neoantigen peptides present in either or both of the highest orthogonal rank for the ImmunoGen Score and the highest orthogonal rank for the MHC binding score.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein a high orthogonal rank for the
ImmunoGenScore is an neoantigen peptide in the top 50% of neoantigen peptides.
30. The method of claim 28, wherein a high orthogonal rank for the MHC binding score is a neoantigen peptide in the top 10% of neoantigen peptides.
31. The method of any one of claims 1 to 30, further comprising prioritizing neoantigen peptides with the highest expression.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein the expression is determined by RNAseq.
33. The method of any one of claims 1 to 32, wherein the immunogenic neoantigen peptide is a target for an anti-cancer vaccine.
34. The method of any one of claims 1 to 33, wherein a higher composite score indicates the immunogenic neoantigen peptide is an optimal target for an anti cancer vaccine.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein the composite score is a personalized cancer vaccine (PCV) score.
36. A system comprising:
at least one programmable data processor; and
memory storing instructions which, when executed by the at least one programmable data processor, implement a method as in any of the preceding claims.
37. A non-transitory computer program product storing instructions which, when executed by at least one data processor forming part of at least one computing device, implement a method as in any of claims 1 to 35.
</claims>
</document>
