<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01P5/26,G01S17/58,G01S17/89,G01S17/95,G01S7/481
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BALL AEROSPACE & TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
APPLEGATE, JEFF
MICALI, JASON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69583457
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPACT FIELD-WIDENED QUADRATURE MACH-ZEHNDER INTERFEROMETER
</title>

<abstract>
An interferometer is provided. The interferometer includes a multifaceted beamsplitter. Angles of incidence between beams entering the beamsplitter and a beamsplitting surface of the beamsplitter are less than 45 degrees. The arms of the interferometer feature a refractive compensator or a catseye optical configuration to provide an optical path length difference for rays that is the same at any location along the effective aperture of the interferometer. A detector assembly can be included with at least four detectors that lie in a plane and that receive light along paths that are orthogonal to that plane.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. An interferometer, comprising:
a multifaceted beam splitter, wherein the multifaceted beamsplitter includes a beam splitting surface, wherein the multifaced beam splitter includes at least first, second, third, and fourth faces, and wherein the first face of the multifaceted beamsplitter is at an angle of less than 45 degrees relative to a line normal to the beam splitting surface;
a first reflector element forming an end of a first arm having first optical path length, wherein light is passed from the second face of the multifaced beamsplitter to the first reflector element, and wherein light is reflected from the first reflector element to the second face of the multifaceted beamsplitter;
a second reflector element forming an end of a second arm having a second optical path length, wherein the second optical path length is different than the first optical path length, wherein light is passed from the fourth face of the multifaced beamsplitter to the second reflector element, and wherein light is reflected from the second reflector element to the fourth face of the multifaceted beam splitter;
a first output element adjacent at least one of the first and third faces of the multifaceted beam splitter, and wherein light that has travelled along the first arm and light that has traveled along the second arm is received at the first output element.
2. The interferometer of claim 1, wherein an optical path difference for rays of light within a given one of the arms is the same for any angle of incidence of the rays.
3. The interferometer of claim 1, further comprising:
a first input, wherein light from the first input is directed to the first face of the multifaceted beam splitter.
4. The interferometer of claim 3, further comprising:
an optical fiber, wherein light is delivered to the first input by the optical fiber.
5. The interferometer of claim 3, wherein the first face of the multifaceted beam splitter is parallel to the second face of the multifaceted beam splitter.
6. The interferometer of claim 5, wherein the first output element is adjacent the first face of the multifaceted beam splitter.
7. The interferometer of claim 6, further comprising:
a second input, wherein light from the second input is directed to the third face of the multifaceted beam splitter.
8. The interferometer of claim 7, wherein a sample of light output from a light source is provided from a first one of the first input and the second input, and wherein a return signal is provided from a second one of the first input and the second input.
9. The interferometer of claim 6, further comprising:
a second output element, wherein the second output element is adjacent the third face of the multifaceted beam splitter, and wherein light that has travelled along the first arm and light that has traveled along the second arm is received at the second output element.
10. The interferometer of claim 9, further comprising:
a detector assembly, wherein the first output element directs light to first and second detectors included in the detector assembly, and wherein the second output element directs light to third and fourth detectors included in the detector assembly.
11. The interferometer of claim 10, wherein the first output element includes a first fold prism that directs light to a first polarizing beam splitter that in turn directs light of a first polarization to the first detector and light of a second polarization to the second detector.
12. The interferometer of claim 11, wherein the second output element includes a second fold prism that directs light to a second polarizing beam splitter that in turn directs light of the first polarization to the third detector and light of the second
polarization to the fourth detector.
13. The interferometer of claim 10, wherein the detectors lie in a first plane, and wherein light enters the respective detectors along lines that are all orthogonal to the first plane.
14. The interferometer of claim 12, wherein an interference pattern received at the second detector is delayed by a nominal 90 degrees relative to an interference pattern received at the first detector, wherein an interference pattern received at the third detector is delayed by a nominal 90 degrees relative to an interference pattern received at the second detector, and wherein an interference pattern received at the fourth detector is delayed by a nominal 90 degrees relative to an interference pattern received at the third detector.
15. The interferometer of claim 14, wherein the detectors are photodetectors.
16. The interferometer of claim 1, wherein the first reflector element is a first corner cube, and wherein the second reflector element is a second corner cube.
17. The interferometer of claim 16, further comprising:
a refractive compensator, wherein the refractive compensator intersects an optical path between the first comer cube and the first face of the multifaceted beam splitter.
18. The interferometer of claim 1, wherein the first reflector element is a first primary mirror, wherein the first arm includes a first secondary mirror, wherein the optical path length for any ray of light passed along the first arm is the same, wherein the second reflector element is a second primary mirror, wherein the second arm includes a second secondary mirror, and wherein the optical path length for any ray of light passed along the second arm is the same.
19. A lidar system, comprising:
a light source;
an interferometer, including:
a multifaceted beam splitter;
a first arm, wherein light directed along the first arm travels a first distance; and
a second arm, wherein light directed along the second arm travels a second distance, wherein the first distance is different than the second distance, and wherein the light directed along the first arm is mixed with the light directed along the second arm to generate an interference pattern;
a plurality of detectors, wherein each detector in the plurality of detectors receives a different phase of the generated interference pattern
a processor, wherein signals from the detectors are provided as inputs to the processor.
20. A method for measuring wind vectors, comprising:
outputting light towards a target volume;
receiving light reflected from particles in the target volume;
passing the received light through a first face of a multifaceted beamsplitter;
splitting the received light into first and second portions, wherein the first portion is passed to a second face of the multifaceted beamsplitter, wherein the second portion is reflected to a fourth face of the multifaceted beamsplitter, wherein the first portion travels a first distance from the second face to a reflector and from the reflector back to the second face, and wherein the second portion travels a second distance from the fourth face to a reflector and from the reflector back to the fourth face; passing at least some of a first one of the first and second portions received back at the second and fourth faces respectively to the first face;
reflecting at least some of a second one of the first and second portions received back at the second and fourth faces respectively to a third face of the multifaceted beam splitter;
receiving the at least some of the first and second portions at a detector adjacent at least one of the first and third faces.
</claims>
</document>
