<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H02J3/00,H02J3/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARASHAR, MANU
WANG, HONGGANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72424678
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR COMPOSITE LOAD CALIBRATION FOR A POWER SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Briefly, embodiments are directed to a system, method, and article for generating a power system load model of a power system. Power grid disturbance data may be accessed. A power system simulation engine may be prepared, wherein the simulation engine may implement the power system model of the power system. A parameter subset A may be identified from a knowledge-based approach. The parameter subset B may be identified based on a special grid event type based on the power grid disturbance data. A final parameter subset may be selectively determined based on parameter subsets A and B using a decision-making approach. At least one parameter of the final parameter subset may be tuned. One or more parameters of the power system load model may be modified based on the tuning.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method to generate a power system load model of a power system, the method comprising:
accessing power grid disturbance data;
preparing a power system simulation engine, wherein the simulation engine implements the power system model of the power system;
identifying a parameter subset A from a knowledge-based approach;
identifying the parameter subset B based on a special grid event type based on the power grid disturbance data;
selectively determining a final parameter subset based on parameter subsets A and B using a decision-making approach;
tuning at least one parameter of the final parameter subset; and
modifying one or more parameters of the power system load model based on the tuning.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the grid event type comprises a Fault-Induced Delayed Voltage Recovery (FIDVR) event.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the parameter subset A comprises determining the parameter subset A based on a Jacobian matrix which stores a relative change of simulation response over a relative change of each parameter of the power system model.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the parameter subset A is based on application at least one of a Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) method or a Dot Product Angle (DP A) method.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the identifying the parameter subset A is based on the application of the SVD method comprising transforming the Jacobian matrix into singular values and selecting particular parameters associated with larger singular values for inclusion within parameter subset A.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the identifying the parameter subset A is based on the application of the DPA method comprising selecting particular parameters of a plurality of parameters based on a score ranking for each of the plurality of parameters based on a DPA score calculated by a Jacobian vector for each of the plurality of parameters and a residual of measured data and simulated response data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein grid disturbance data is received from one or more phasor measurement units (PMUs) and/or Digital Fault Recorders.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the tuning of the at least one parameter is based on application of a nonlinear least square optimization algorithm, a Kalman filtering estimation algorithm, one or more evolutionary algorithms, a particle swarm optimizer, and/or an artificial immune algorithm.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the decision making approach is based on confidence factors for parameter subset A identification and parameter subset B identification during an offline training phase.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the confidence factors are based on the at least one of a curve fitting index including mean square errors, a Manhattan distance or sum of absolute error, a short time series distance, a cosine based similarity, a correlation coefficient, and/or dynamic time warping.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the power grid disturbance data comprises at least one parameter comprising at least one measurement of voltage, frequency, angle, active power, or reactive power.
11. A system, comprising:
a receiver to receive power grid disturbance data;
a power system simulation engine, wherein the simulation engine implements a power system load model of a power system; a processor to:
identify a parameter subset A from a knowledge-based approach; identify a parameter subset B based on a special grid event type based on the power grid disturbance data;
selectively determine a final parameter subset based on parameter subsets A and B using a decision-making approach;
tuning at least one parameter of the final parameter subset; and
modifying one or more parameters of the power system load model based on the tuning.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the grid event type comprises a Fault-Induced Delayed Voltage Recovery (FIDVR) event.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the identification of the parameter subset A comprises a determination of the parameter subset A based on a Jacobian matrix which stores a relative change of simulation response over a relative change of each parameter of the power system load model.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the receiver is to receive the power grid disturbance data from one or more phasor measurement units (PMUs) and/or Digital Fault Recorders.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the identification of the parameter subset A is based on application at least one of a Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) method or a Dot Product Angle (DP A) method.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the identification of the parameter subset A is based on the application of the SVD method comprising transforming the Jacobian matrix into singular values and selection of particular parameters associated with larger singular values for inclusion within parameter subset A.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the identification of the parameter subset A is based on the application of the DPA method comprising selecting particular parameters of a plurality of parameters based on a score ranking for each of the plurality of parameters based on a DPA score calculated by a Jacobian vector for each of the plurality of parameters and a residual of measured data and simulated response data.
18. An article, comprising:
a non-transitory storage medium comprising machine-readable instructions executable by one or more processors to:
access power grid disturbance data;
prepare a power system simulation engine, wherein the simulation engine implements the power system load model of the power system;
identify a parameter subset A from a knowledge-based approach;
identify the parameter subset B based on a special grid event type based on the power grid disturbance data;
selectively determine a final parameter subset based on parameter subsets A and B using a decision-making approach;
tune at least one parameter of the final parameter subset; and
modify one or more parameters of the power system load model based on the tuning.
19. The article of claim 18, wherein the machine-readable instructions are further executable by the one or more processors to identify the parameter subset A based on an application at least one of a Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) method or a Dot Product Angle (DPA) method.
20. The article of claim 18, wherein the power grid disturbance data is generated by one or more phasor measurement units (PMUs) and/or Digital Fault Recorders.
</claims>
</document>
