<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUGRO
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEVINE, CHRISTINE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68165602
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED MAPPING OF FEATURES OF INTEREST
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for identifying features of interest in a data image. The method includes identifying data variations in a data image or set of data images, each data image comprising rendered data, identifying one or more features of interest in the data image or set of data images based on the identified data variations, identifying a feature of interest genus corresponding to each identified feature of interest, reclassifying the rendered data based on each of the identified features of interest genuses so as to eliminate background data in the rendered data thereby producing an eliminated background dataset, and generating a feature of interest map for each identified feature of interest genus. A machine learning method, including a training phase, for automatically identifying features of interest in a data image is further provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer-implemented method for identifying features of interest in a dataset, the method comprising:
identifying data variations in a data image or set of dataset, each dataset comprising rendered data;
identifying one or more features of interest in the dataset based on the identified data variations;
identifying a feature of interest genus corresponding to each identified feature of interest;
reclassifying the rendered data based on each of the identified features of interest genuses so as to eliminate background data in the rendered data thereby producing an eliminated background dataset; and
generating a feature of interest dataset for each identified feature of interest genus.
2. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, further comprising:
converting the features of interest into polygons for each eliminated background dataset;
calculating at least one of: a geometry of the polygons corresponding to each feature of interest; and a spatial parameter corresponding to the polygons for each feature of interest; and
determining at least one of:
whether each feature of interest has a predetermined geometry of significance based on the calculated geometry of the polygons; and
whether each feature of interest has a predetermined spatial parameter of significance based on the calculated spatial parameter of the polygons.
3. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, further comprising:
isolating features of interest having a predetermined size by eliminating the polygons of unnecessary features of interest not having the predetermined size.
4. The computer-implemented method according to claim 3, further comprising:
assigning relative weights to each feature of interest based on an established ranking system.
5. The computerimplemented method according to claim 4, wherein the established ranking system is associated with the geometry of the polygons, relative hazard level, relative risk level, constraint to specific development,
6. The computer-implemented method according to claim 5, wherein the ranked feature of interest map is generated by assigning numerical values to individual polygons, converting the polygons from vector format to raster format, and combining the individual rasters into one ranked raster.
7. The computer-implemented method according to claim 4, further comprising:
generating a ranked feature of interest map for each identified feature of interest genus based on the assigned relative rank weights to each feature of interest.
8. The computer-implemented method according to claim 7, whereby generating the composite feature of interest map for all features of interest corresponding to all feature of interest genuses is created by layering all individual feature of interest maps into one or more maps.
9. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, further comprising:
generating a feature of interest map for each identified feature of interest genus.
10. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, further comprising:
generating a composite feature of interest map for all features of interest corresponding to all feature of interest genuses.
11. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1 , wherein the feature of interest or feature of interest genus is an exploitable feature of interest selected from the group consisting of a geologic formation of interest, a subsea petroleum seep, a terrestrial petroleum seep, a subsea mineral deposit, lost cargo from a vessel, subsea wreckage of a vessel, terrestrial and subsea plane wreckage, unexploded ordinance (UXO), and spacecraft or satellite remains.
12. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein the feature of interest or feature of interest genus is a geologic feature selected from the group consisting of faults or fault scarps, pockmarks, depressions, channels, canyons, depositional bedforms, erosional bedforms, strudel scouring as a result of sea ice, ice gouges, boulders, dropstones (ice-rafted debris), upheaval zones, ridges, seamounts, hydrothermal vents, gas hydrates, thaw settlement depressions, slump deposits, slope failure deposits, fluid expulsion features (e.g. mud volcanoes, expulsion mounds, pockmarks), and faults.
13. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein the data image is an optical or visual image.
14. The computerimplemented method according to claim 13, wherein the data image is an optical or visual image selected from the group consisting of greyscale or color photomosaics, high resolution orthoimagery (HRO), images derived from video captures, imagery derived from remotely operated vehicles (ROVs), imagery captured by vessels or submarines, and plane or satellite imagery.
15. The computerimplemented method according to claim 1, wherein the data image is a data-derived rendering based on a terrestrial or subsea digital elevation model.
16. The computerimplemented method according to claim 1, wherein the data image is a data-derived rendering derived from a dataset obtained from one of the group consisting of quantitative slope models, hillshade models, multibeam echosounder (MBES) bathymetry, spectral analyzers or imaging spectroscopy, airborne or satellite-borne hyper-spectral (HS) sensors, airborne or satellite-borne multi-spectral (MS) imaging sensors, airborne or satelliteborne laser bathymetry, Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR), Airborne Laser Bathymetry (ALB), and LIDAR bathymetry.
17. The computerimplemented method according to claim 1, wherein the data variation is selected from the group consisting of recognizable patterns in the data image, changes in color, changes in contrast or shading, tonal variations, changes in steepness or slope, and changes in curvature.
18. A computerimplemented method for identifying features of interest in a data image using machine learning, the method comprising:
a training phase comprising:
accessing a training data image set with at least one training data image, wherein each training data image comprises a rendering of a feature of interest corresponding to a feature of interest genus;
determining one or more data variation characteristics corresponding to the feature of interest;
storing the one or more data variation characteristics corresponding to the feature of interest in a training database;
determining a feature of interest genus corresponding to the feature of interest based on the determined one or more data variation characteristics;
storing the feature of interest genus corresponding to the feature of interest in the training database; and
an identification phase comprising:
accessing a data image comprising at least one feature of interest; automatically identifying a feature of interest in the data image based on one or more data variation characteristics stored in the training database;
automatically identifying a feature of interest genus corresponding to the identified feature of interest based on the one or more data variation characteristics stored in the training database.
19. The computer-implemented method according to claim 18, further comprising:
an analysis phase comprising:
reclassifying the rendered data in the dataset based on the identified feature of interest or the identified feature of interest genus to reduce or eliminate background data in the rendered data and produce an eliminated background dataset;
converting the identified features of interest into polygons for each eliminated background dataset.
20. The computerimplemented method according to claim 19, wherein the analysis phase further comprises:
isolating features of interest having a predetermined size or significance by eliminating the polygons of unnecessary features of interest not having the predetermined size or significance.
</claims>
</document>
