<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12N15/82,G06N3/04,G06N7/00,G16B20/50,G16B40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
X DEVELOPMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRAHAM, Logan
ZAMFT, Bradley
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70919131
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR GOVERNING PHENOTYPIC OUTCOMES IN PLANTS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on computer storage media, for governing phenotypic outcomes in plants. One method includes obtaining a model input comprising time series data, wherein the time series data comprises, for each previous time point of one or more previous time points, at least one of i) first multi-omics data corresponding to a plant at the previous time point, or ii) phenotypic data corresponding to the plant at the previous time point; and processing the model input using a machine learning model to obtain a model output that comprises, for each future time point of one or more of future time points, a prediction of at least one of i) a phenotype of the plant at the future time point, or ii) second multi-omics data corresponding to the plant at the future time point.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising:
obtaining a model input comprising time series data, wherein the time series data comprises, for each previous time point of one or more previous time points, at least one of i) first multi-omics data corresponding to a plant at the previous time point, or ii) phenotypic data corresponding to the plant at the previous time point; and
processing the model input using a machine learning model to obtain a model output that comprises, for each future time point of one or more of future time points, a prediction of at least one of i) a phenotype of the plant at the future time point, or ii) second multi-omics data corresponding to the plant at the future time point, wherein the machine learning model has been configured through training to:
receive a training model input corresponding to a training plant, and process the training model input to generate a prediction corresponding to the training plant at each of one or more future time points.
2. The method of claim 1 , further comprising determining, according to the model output, to deliver exogenous material to the plant, comprising one or more of:
modifying the genome of the plant;
editing the RNA of the plant;
modifying the levels of particular transcripts in the plant; or
delivering proteins to the plant.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising one or more of:
determining a management practice profile of the plant using the model output;
determining an environment profile of the plant using the model output; or
determining a breeding decision for the plant using the model output.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the time series data further comprises, for each previous time point of the one or more previous time points, one or more of environment or management practice data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the first multi-omics data and the second multiomics data comprises one or more of: genome, epigenome, transcriptome, proteome,
metabolome, lipidome, glycome, cytome, exome, interferome, kinome, ionome, metalome, methylome, phenome, phytochemome, regulome, secretome data, meta-genome, metaepigenome, meta-transcriptome, meta-proteome, meta-metabolome, meta-lipidome, metaglycome, meta-cytome, meta-exome, meta-interferome, meta-kinome, meta-ionome, metametalome, meta-methylome, meta-phenome, meta-phytochemome, meta-regulome, or metasec retome data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is a hybrid model, wherein the hybrid model comprises i) a machine-learned component and ii) an encoded component.
7. A method comprising:
obtaining a model input comprising at least one of i) a desired multi-omics profile of a plant, or ii) a desired phenotype of the plant;
processing the model input using a generative machine learning model to obtain a model output comprising one or more of:
a target multi-omics profile,
a target management practice profile, or
a target environment profile,
wherein the generative machine learning model has been configured through training to: receive a training model input that identifies desired qualities of a training plant, and
process the training model input to generate one or more of i) a target multi-omics profile, ii) a target management practice profile, or iii) a target environment profile that, when used to modify the training plant, causes the training plant to exhibit the desired qualities; and performing one or more interventions to modify the plant according to the model output.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein:
the model input comprises a target multi-omics profile, the target multi-omics profile comprises a target genomic sequence, and performing one or more interventions to modify the plant comprises modifying the genome of the plant to include the target genomic sequence.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein:
the modification is in a regulatory region, and
is directed toward one or more specific tissues of the plant, one or more developmental stages of the plant, and/or one or more environmental conditions that the plant is in.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein modifying the genome of the plant comprises one or more of:
delivering nucleic acids and proteins to the plant; and
performing gene editing or base editing.
1 1. The method of claim 7, wherein the target multi-omics profile comprises one or more of: genome, epigenome, transcriptome, proteome, metabolome, lipidome, glycome, cytome,exome, interferome, kinome, ionome, metalome, methylome, phenome, phytochemome, regulome, secretome data, meta-genome, meta-epigenome, meta-transcriptome, meta-proteome, metametabolome, meta-lipidome, meta-glycome, meta-cytome, meta-exome, meta-interferome, metakinome, meta-ionome, meta-metalome, meta-methylome, meta-phenome, meta-phytochemome, meta-regulome, or meta-secretome data.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the one or more interventions comprise one or more of: breeding;
bacterial delivery;
viral delivery;
chemical delivery;
biolistics;
nanoparticle delivery; or
microinjection. 13. The method of claim 7, wherein the generative machine learning model comprises one or more of:
a generative adversarial network;
a probabilistic deep learning model;
a Bayesian model;
a probabilistic kernel method;
a stochastic method;
a sequence prediction model;
an energy-based model;
one or more density estimation models in combination with one or more predictive model(s); or
a combination probabilistic-non-probabilistic model.
14. One or more non-transitory computer storage media encoded with computer program instructions that when executed by a plurality of computers cause the plurality of computers to perform operations comprising:
obtaining a model input comprising time series data, wherein the time series data comprises, for each previous time point of one or more previous time points, at least one of i) first multi-omics data corresponding to a plant at the previous time point, or ii) phenotypic data corresponding to the plant at the previous time point; and
processing the model input using a machine learning model to obtain a model output that comprises, for each future time point of one or more of future time points, a prediction of at least one of i) a phenotype of the plant at the future time point, or ii) second multi-omics data corresponding to the plant at the future time point, wherein the machine learning model has been configured through training to:
receive a training model input corresponding to a training plant, and process the training model input to generate a prediction corresponding to the training plant at each of one or more future time points.
15. The non-transitory computer storage media of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise determining, according to the model output, to deliver exogenous material to the plant, comprising one or more of:
modifying the genome of the plant;
editing the RNA of the plant;
modifying the levels of particular transcripts in the plant; or
delivering proteins to the plant.
16. The non-transitory computer storage media of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise one or more of:
determining a management practice profile of the plant using the model output;
determining an environment profile of the plant using the model output; or
determining a breeding decision for the plant using the model output.
17. The non-transitory computer storage media of claim 14, wherein the time series data further comprises, for each previous time point of the one or more previous time points, one or more of environment or management practice data.
18. The non-transitory computer storage media of claim 14, wherein each of the first multiomics data and the second multi-omics data comprises one or more of: genome, epigenome, transcriptome, proteome, metabolome, lipidome, glycome, cytome, exome, interferome, kinome, ionome, metalome, methylome, phenome, phytochemome, regulome, secretome data, metagenome, meta-epigenome, meta-transcriptome, meta-proteome, meta-metabolome, metalipidome, meta-glycome, meta-cytome, meta-exome, meta-interferome, meta-kinome, metaionome, meta-metalome, meta-methylome, meta-phenome, meta-phytochemome, metaregulome, or meta-secretome data.
19. The non-transitory computer storage media of claim 14, wherein the machine learning model is a hybrid model, wherein the hybrid model comprises i) a machine-learned component and ii) an encoded component.
</claims>
</document>
