<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/27,H04L9/08,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RELIANCE JIO INFOCOMM
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHAMRAH, Dipender
BHATNAGAR, Aayush
CHAUHAN, Kanchan
KRISHNASWAMY, Dilip
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514492
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR VIRTUAL DISTRIBUTED LEDGER NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments relate to virtual distributed ledger networks provisioning using distributed ledger technology. In one embodiment, a system is disclosed, comprising a hardware processor and a memory device storing instructions executable by the hardware processor to perform operations. The operations comprise creating one or more virtual machines and executing a plurality of microservices via the one or more virtual machines. At least two of the plurality of microservices are associated with different distributed ledger technology networks. The plurality of microservices include an event routing manager microservice configured to receive a smart contract microservice request and to route events between microservices, a smart contract execution microservice configured to execute a smart contract associated with the smart contract microservice request, and a transaction resource manager microservice configured to commit an outcome of the smart contract execution microservice to a distributed ledger associated with one of the different distributed ledger technology networks.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system for implementing virtual distributed ledger technology network nodes, comprising:
at least one hardware processor; and
at least one memory device storing instructions executable by the at least one hardware processor to perform operations comprising:
creating one or more virtual machines;
executing a plurality of microservices via the one or more virtual machines;
wherein at least two of the plurality of microservices are associated with different distributed ledger technology networks;
wherein the plurality of microservices include:
an event routing manager microservice configured to receive a smart contract microservice request and to route events between microservices;
a smart contract execution microservice configured to execute a smart contract associated with the smart contract microservice request; and
a transaction resource manager microservice configured to commit an outcome of the smart contract execution microservice to a distributed ledger associated with one of the different distributed ledger technology networks.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more virtual machines is a virtual distributed ledger technology node associated with a virtual distributed ledger technology network comprising a plurality of virtual distributed ledger technology nodes.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more virtual machines is a virtual distributed ledger technology node associated with a different virtual distributed ledger technology network, each virtual distributed ledger technology network comprising a plurality of virtual distributed ledger technology nodes.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the virtual distributed ledger technology network uses a consensus protocol to confirm consensus among its virtual distributed ledger technology network nodes to commit an outcome of one of the plurality of microservices to the distributed ledger.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein one of the virtual distributed ledger technology nodes is a producer node storing a master ledger, and another of the virtual distributed ledger technology nodes is a consumer node storing an at least partially replicated ledger.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the virtual distributed ledger technology network is configured to asynchronously update the at least partially replicated ledger based on the master ledger.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one memory device storing instructions executable by the hardware processor to perform operations comprising:
receiving a request to access user data stored external to the distributed ledger; wherein the plurality of microservices include a data protection compliance microservice configured to control access to the user data by determining whether the request to access the user data is approved or rejected; and wherein the transaction resource manager microservice is configured to commit the access control determination to the distributed ledger.
8. A method for implementing virtual distributed ledger technology network nodes, comprising:
creating, via at least one hardware processor, one or more virtual machines;
executing, via the at least one hardware processor, a plurality of microservices via the one or more virtual machines;
wherein at least two of the plurality of microservices are associated with different distributed ledger technology networks;
wherein the plurality of microservices include:
an event routing manager microservice configured to receive a smart contract microservice request and to route events between microservices; a smart contract execution microservice configured to execute a smart contract associated with smart contract microservice request; and
a transaction resource manager microservice configured to commit an outcome of the smart contract execution microservice to a distributed ledger associated with one of the different distributed ledger technology networks.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein each of the one or more virtual machines is a virtual distributed ledger technology node associated with a virtual distributed ledger technology network comprising a plurality of virtual distributed ledger technology nodes.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein each of the one or more virtual machines is a virtual distributed ledger technology node associated with a different virtual distributed ledger technology network, each virtual distributed ledger technology network comprising a plurality of virtual distributed ledger technology nodes.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the virtual distributed ledger technology network uses a consensus protocol to confirm consensus among its virtual distributed ledger technology network nodes to commit an outcome of one of the plurality of microservices to the distributed ledger.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein one of the virtual distributed ledger technology nodes is a producer node storing a master ledger, and another of the virtual distributed ledger technology nodes is a consumer node storing an at least partially replicated ledger.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the virtual distributed ledger technology network is configured to asynchronously update the at least partially replicated ledger based on the master ledger.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising:
receiving, via the at least one hardware processor, a request to access user data stored external to the distributed ledger; wherein the plurality of microservices include a data protection compliance microservice configured to control access to the user data by determining whether the request to access the user data is approved or rejected; and
wherein the transaction resource manager microservice is configured to commit the access control determination to the distributed ledger.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions for implementing virtual distributed ledger technology network nodes, the instructions executable by a hardware processor to perform operations comprising:
creating, via at least one hardware processor, one or more virtual machines;
executing, via the at least one hardware processor, a plurality of microservices via the one or more virtual machines;
wherein at least two of the plurality of microservices are associated with different distributed ledger technology networks;
wherein the plurality of microservices include:
an event routing manager microservice configured to receive a smart contract microservice request and to route events between microservices;
a smart contract execution microservice configured to execute a smart contract associated with smart contract microservice request; and
a transaction resource manager microservice configured to commit an outcome of the smart contract execution microservice to a distributed ledger associated with one of the different distributed ledger technology networks.
16. The medium of claim 15, wherein each of the one or more virtual machines is a virtual distributed ledger technology node associated with a virtual distributed ledger technology network comprising a plurality of virtual distributed ledger technology nodes.
17. The medium of claim 15, wherein each of the one or more virtual machines is a virtual distributed ledger technology node associated with a different virtual distributed ledger technology network, each virtual distributed ledger technology network comprising a plurality of virtual distributed ledger technology nodes.
18. The medium of claim 16, wherein the virtual distributed ledger technology network uses a consensus protocol to confirm consensus among its virtual distributed ledger technology network nodes to commit an outcome of one of the plurality of microservices to the distributed ledger.
19. The medium of claim 16, wherein one of the virtual distributed ledger technology nodes is a producer node storing a master ledger, and another of the virtual distributed ledger technology nodes is a consumer node storing an at least partially replicated ledger. 20. The medium of claim 19, wherein the virtual distributed ledger technology network is configured to asynchronously update the at least partially replicated ledger based on the master ledger.
21. The medium of claim 15, further storing instructions executable by a hardware processor to perform operations comprising:
receiving a request to access user data stored external to the distributed ledger;
wherein the plurality of microservices include a data protection compliance microservice configured to control access to the user data by determining whether the request to access the user data is approved or rejected; and
wherein the transaction resource manager microservice is configured to commit the access control determination to the distributed ledger.
</claims>
</document>
