<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-02
</priority_date>

<assignee>
NUSANTAO
</assignee>

<inventors>
CORNING, RAYMOND VINCENT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72662050
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MANAGING ACCESS TO DATA AND MANAGING OPERATIONS PERFORMED BY APPLICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A system architecture for managing access to data and managing operations performed by applications using the data. In one example, a secure edge module is provided. In some embodiments, a secure edge module may be provided. The secure edge module may be a secure environment that is trusted to control/manage access to different sets of data. The secure edge module may identify/authenticate applications that may perform operations on the data. The secure edge module may decrypt the data within the secure edge module and allow the operations to execute within the secure edged module, using the decrypted data.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method, comprising:
obtaining a first smart contract associated with a set of data, a secure edge module, and an artificial intelligence model, wherein the artificial intelligence model is configured to generate inferences;
determining whether the artificial intelligence model is allowed to generate a set of inferences using the set of data based on the first smart contract;
in response to determining that the artificial intelligence model is allowed to generate the set of inferences using the set of data, causing the artificial intelligence model to execute on the set of data to generate the set of inferences; and
performing one or more post processing operations for one or more of the artificial intelligence model and the set of data based on the first smart contract.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first smart contract indicates one or more of: a first set of permissions for the set of data;
a second set of permissions for the artificial intelligence model;
a third set of permissions for the set of inferences; and
a set of stakeholders associated with the first smart contract.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
in response to determining that the artificial intelligence model is not allowed to generate the set of inferences using the set of data, preventing the artificial intelligence model from executing on the set of data.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
obtaining encrypted data based on the first smart contract; and
decrypting the encrypted data to generate the set of data.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving an encrypted artificial intelligence model; and
decrypting the encrypted artificial intelligence model to obtain the artificial intelligence model.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the one or more post processing operations comprises one or more of:
deleting the set of data after a period of time;
deleting the artificial intelligence model after the period of time.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
identifying one or more of a set of networks and a set of computing devices based on a second smart contract;
determining whether the secure edge module is able to communicate with one or more of the set of networks and the set of computing devices;
in response to determining that the secure edge module is able to communicate with one or more of the set of networks and the set of computing devices, allowing the artificial intelligence model to execute on the set of data to generate the set of inferences; and
in response to determining that the secure edge module is not able to communicate with one or more of the set of networks and the set of computing devices, preventing the artificial intelligence model from using the set of data to generate the set of inferences.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the first smart contract comprises:
determining a storage location for the first smart contract based on an entry in a blockchain;
retrieving an encrypted smart contract from the storage location; and
decrypting the encrypted smart contract to obtain the first smart contract.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the artificial intelligence model is allowed to generate the set of inferences comprises:
generating a first hash based on the artificial intelligence model; and
verifying the artificial intelligence model based on the first hash and a second hash indicated by the first smart contract.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the secure edge module is configured to refrain from: performing operations that are not indicated in the first smart contract;
executing artificial intelligence model that are not indicated in the first smart contract; allowing access to data that is not indicated in the first smart contract.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the first smart contract indicates a period of time or a number of times that the artificial intelligence model is allowed to use the set of data.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the first smart contract, determining whether the artificial intelligence model is allowed to generate the set of inferences, and causing the artificial intelligence model to execute are performed by the secure edge module.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the first smart contract, determining whether the artificial intelligence model is allowed to generate the set of inferences, and causing the artificial intelligence model to execute are performed by a computing device separate from the secure edge module.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein:
the first smart contract indicates configuration data for the secure edge module; and the configuration data indicates one or more of hardware or software used in the secure edge module.
15. An apparatus, comprising:
a memory configured to store data; and
a processing device configured to:
obtain a first smart contract associated with a set of data, a secure edge module, and an artificial intelligence model, wherein the artificial intelligence model is configured to generate inferences;
determine whether the artificial intelligence model is allowed to generate a set of inferences using the set of data based on the first smart contract;
in response to determining that the artificial intelligence model is allowed to generate the set of inferences using the set of data, cause the artificial intelligence model to execute on the set of data to generate the set of inferences; and
performing one or more post processing operations for one or more of the artificial intelligence model and the set of data based on the first smart contract.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processing device is further configured to: prevent the artificial intelligence model from executing on the set of data in response to determining that the artificial intelligence model is not allowed to generate the set of inferences using the set of data.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processing device is further configured to: identify one or more of a set of networks and a set of computing devices based on a second smart contract;
determine whether the secure edge module is able to communicate with one or more of the set of networks and the set of computing devices;
in response to determining that the secure edge module is able to communicate with one or more of the set of networks and the set of computing devices, allow the artificial intelligence model to execute on the set of data to generate the set of inferences; and
in response to determining that the secure edge module is not able to communicate with one or more of the set of networks and the set of computing devices, prevent the artificial intelligence model from using the set of data to generate the set of inferences.
18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processing device is configured to refrain from:
performing operations that are not indicated in the first smart contract;
executing artificial intelligence model that are not indicated in the first smart contract; allowing access to data that is not indicated in the first smart contract.
19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first smart contract indicates one or more of: a first set of permissions for the set of data;
a second set of permissions for the artificial intelligence model;
a third set of permissions for the set of inferences; and
a set of stakeholders associated with the first smart contract.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by a processing device, cause the processing device to perform operations comprising:
obtaining a first smart contract associated with a set of data, a secure edge module, and an artificial intelligence model, wherein the artificial intelligence model is configured to generate inferences; determining whether the artificial intelligence model is allowed to generate a set of inferences using the set of data based on the first smart contract;
in response to determining that the artificial intelligence model is allowed to generate the set of inferences using the set of data, causing the artificial intelligence model to execute on the set of data to generate the set of inferences; and
performing one or more post processing operations for one or more of the artificial intelligence model and the set of data based on the first smart contract.
</claims>
</document>
