<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0488,G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAGE SENSES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABGHARI, ARASH
GIURGIU, SERGIU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69591226
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, SYSTEM AND APPARATUS FOR TOUCH GESTURE RECOGNITION
</title>

<abstract>
A method, system and apparatus for touch gesture recognition are provided. A device generates a trajectory corresponding to a two-dimensional touch gesture. The device generates a plurality of variations of the trajectory in one or more of two dimensions. The device extracts one or more features of the trajectory and the plurality of variations of the trajectory. The device generates, from the one or more features, one or more machine learning classifiers. The device stores, at a memory, the one or more machine learning classifiers, such that a machine learning algorithm uses the one or more machine learning classifiers to recognize the two-dimensional touch gesture when receiving touch gesture input.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method comprising:
generating, at a computing device, a trajectory corresponding to a twodimensional touch gesture;
generating, at the computing device, a plurality of variations of the trajectory in one or more of two dimensions;
extracting, at the computing device, one or more features of the trajectory and the plurality of variations of the trajectory;
generating, at the computing device, from the one or more features, one or more machine learning classifiers; and
storing, using the computing device, the one or more machine learning classifiers at a memory, such that a machine learning algorithm uses the one or more machine learning classifiers to recognize the two-dimensional touch gesture when receiving touch gesture input.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating the trajectory by: receiving touch gesture data corresponding to a drawing of the trajectory; and converting the touch gesture data to the trajectory.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising converting the touch gesture data to the trajectory by one or more of: removing an off-set from the touch gesture data; and evenly distributing sampling points in the touch gesture data.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating the trajectory by: receiving script data defining the trajectory; and converting the script data to the trajectory.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating the plurality of variations of the trajectory by one or more of:
scaling the trajectory in one or more of the two dimensions;
rotating the trajectory; extending one or more portions of the trajectory;
one or more of cropping and cutting the one or more portions of the trajectory; distorting the trajectory in one or more of the two dimensions;
elastically distorting the trajectory in one or more of the two dimensions; applying one or more perspectives to the trajectory in one or more of the two dimensions;
deforming at least a portion of the trajectory; and
distorting at least a portion of the trajectory.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising extracting the one or more features of the trajectory and the plurality of variations of the trajectory by, for the trajectory and the plurality of variations of the trajectory:
sampling a fixed number of data points representing the trajectory or a variation of the trajectory, the fixed number of data points distributed along the trajectory or the variation of the trajectory, the data points comprising respective coordinates in a given coordinate system; and
determining one or more of:
a normalized sequence of changes in angle between adjacent data points along the trajectory or the variation of the trajectory;
a normalized histogram of the normalized sequence;
a normalized first coordinate histogram of normalized first coordinates, for a first direction in the given coordinate system;
a normalized second coordinate histogram of normalized second coordinates, for a second direction in the given coordinate system,
such that the features comprise, for the trajectory and the plurality of variations of the trajectory, one or more of:
the normalized first coordinates;
the normalized second coordinates;
the normalized first coordinate histogram;
the normalized second coordinate histogram;
the normalized sequence of the changes in the angle; and
the normalized histogram for the normalized sequence.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more machine learning classifiers are generated by training the one or more machine learning algorithms using the features.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising storing the one or more machine learning classifiers at the memory in association with a label identifying the twodimensional touch gesture.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the storing the one or more machine learning classifiers at the memory comprises transmitting the one or more machine learning classifiers to one or more devices that include the memory, the one or more devices configured to: store the one or more machine classifiers at the memory, execute the machine learning algorithm; and receive the touch gesture input.
10. A computing device comprising:
a controller having access to a memory, the controller configured to:
generate a trajectory corresponding to a two-dimensional touch gesture;
generate a plurality of variations of the trajectory in one or more of two dimensions;
extract one or more features of the trajectory and the plurality of variations of the trajectory;
generate, from the one or more features, one or more machine learning classifiers; and
store, at the memory, the one or more machine learning classifiers, such that a machine learning algorithm uses the one or more machine learning classifiers to recognize the two-dimensional touch gesture when receiving touch gesture input.
11. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to generate the trajectory by: receiving touch gesture data corresponding to a drawing of the trajectory; and converting the touch gesture data to the trajectory.
12. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to convert the touch gesture data to the trajectory by one or more of: removing an off set from the touch gesture data; and evenly distributing sampling points in the touch gesture data.
13. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to generate the trajectory by: receiving script data defining the trajectory; and converting the script data to the trajectory.
14. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to generate the plurality of variations of the trajectory by one or more of:
scaling the trajectory in one or more of the two dimensions;
rotating the trajectory;
extending one or more portions of the trajectory;
one or more of cropping and cutting the one or more portions of the trajectory; distorting the trajectory in one or more of the two dimensions;
elastically distorting the trajectory in one or more of the two dimensions; applying one or more perspectives to the trajectory in one or more of the two dimensions;
deforming at least a portion of the trajectory; and
distorting at least a portion of the trajectory.
15. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to extract the one or more features of the trajectory and the plurality of variations of the trajectory by, for the trajectory and the plurality of variations of the trajectory: sampling a fixed number of data points representing the trajectory or a variation of the trajectory, the fixed number of data points distributed along the trajectory or the variation of the trajectory, the data points comprising respective coordinates in a given coordinate system; and
determining one or more of:
a normalized sequence of changes in angle between adjacent data points along the trajectory or the variation of the trajectory; a normalized histogram of the normalized sequence;
a normalized first coordinate histogram of normalized first coordinates, for a first direction in the given coordinate system;
a normalized second coordinate histogram of normalized second coordinates, for a second direction in the given coordinate system,
such that the features comprise, for the trajectory and the plurality of variations of the trajectory, one or more of:
the normalized first coordinates;
the normalized second coordinates;
the normalized first coordinate histogram;
the normalized second coordinate histogram;
the normalized sequence of the changes in the angle; and
the normalized histogram for the normalized sequence.
16. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to generate the one or more machine learning classifiers by training the one or more machine learning algorithms using the features.
17. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to store the one or more machine learning classifiers at the memory in association with a label identifying the two-dimensional touch gesture.
18. The computing device of claim 10, further comprising a communication interface, and wherein the controller is further configured to store the one or more machine learning classifiers at the memory by transmitting the one or more machine learning classifiers to one or more devices include the memory, the one or more devices configured to: store the one or more machine classifiers at the memory, execute the machine learning algorithm; and receive the touch gesture input.
</claims>
</document>
