<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/32,G06K9/34,G06K9/46,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANGELOVA, ANELIA
KUO, WEICHENG
LIN, TSUNG-YI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67928875
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEGMENTING OBJECTS BY REFINING SHAPE PRIORS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for performing instance segmentation by detecting and segmenting individual objects in an image. In one aspect, a method comprises: processing an image to generate data identifying a region of the image that depicts a particular object; obtaining data defining a plurality of example object segmentations; generating a respective weight value for each of the example object segmentations; for each of a plurality of pixels in the region of the image, determining a score characterizing a likelihood that the pixel is included in the particular object depicted in the region of the image using: (i) the example object segmentations, and (ii) the weight values for the example object segmentations; and generating a segmentation of the particular object depicted in the region of the image using the scores for the pixels in the region of the image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by one or more data processing apparatus, the method comprising: processing an image to generate data identifying a region of the image that depicts a particular object;
obtaining data defining a plurality of example object segmentations from a set of training object segmentations, wherein each example object segmentation defines an example segmentation of a respective object;
generating a respective weight value for each of the example object segmentations, wherein the weight value for an example object segmentation characterizes an estimated similarity between: (i) a segmentation of the particular object depicted in the region of the image, and (ii) the example object segmentation;
for each of a plurality of pixels in the region of the image, determining a score characterizing a likelihood that the pixel is included in the particular object depicted in the region of the image using: (i) the example object segmentations, and (ii) the weight values for the example object segmentations; and
generating a segmentation of the particular object depicted in the region of the image using the scores for the pixels in the region of the image, wherein the segmentation of the particular object defines, for each pixel in the region of the image, whether the pixel is included in the particular object depicted in the region.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the image to generate data identifying a region of the image that depicts a particular object comprises processing the image using an object detection neural network.
3. The method of any one of claims 1-2, wherein the data identifying the region of the image that depicts the particular object comprises data defining a bounding box around the particular object in the image.
4. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the example object segmentations are cluster centroids obtained by clustering a plurality of training object segmentations.
5. The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein each of the example object segmentations defines an example segmentation of a respective object of a same object class.
6. The method of any one of claims 1-5, further comprising processing the image to generate data identifying an object class of the particular object depicted in the region of the image.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein each of the example object segmentations defines an example segmentation of a respective object of the same object class as the particular object depicted in the region of the image.
8. The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein generating a respective weight value for each of the example object segmentations comprises processing, using a prior neural network, an input comprising: (i) a feature representation of the region of the image, and (ii) the example object segmentations.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the example object segmentations are aligned with the feature representation of the region of the image prior to being processed by the prior neural network.
10. The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein generating a respective weight value for each of the example object segmentations comprises:
pooling a feature representation of the region of the image; and
processing an input comprising the pooled feature representation of the region of the image using a prior neural network.
11. The method of any one of claims 8-10, wherein the input to the prior neural network further comprises a feature representation of the portion of the image outside the region depicting the particular object.
12. The method of any one of claims 8-11, wherein the feature representation of the region of the image is obtained from an intermediate output of an object detection neural network used to generate data identifying: (i) the region of the image that depicts the particular object, and (ii) the object class of the particular object.
13. The method of any one of claims 1-12, wherein determining, for each of a plurality of pixels in the region of the image, a score characterizing a likelihood that the pixel is included in a segmentation of the particular object comprises:
scaling each example object segmentation by the likelihood score for the example object segmentation;
summing the scaled example object segmentations; and
determining the score for a pixel in the region of the image based on a corresponding pixel in an image defined by the sum of the scaled example object segmentations.
14. The method of any one of claims 1-13, wherein generating a segmentation of the particular object depicted in the region of the image using the scores for the pixels in the region of the image comprises:
generating detection features using: (i) a feature representation of the region of the image, and (ii) the scores for the pixels in the region of the image;
generating a coarse segmentation of the particular object depicted in the region of the image using the detection features;
generating an instance embedding of the particular object depicted in the region of the image using: (i) the detection features, and (ii) the coarse segmentation of the particular object; and
generating the segmentation of the particular object using the instance embedding of the particular object.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein generating detection features comprises:
processing a representation of the scores for the pixels in the region of the image using one or more convolutional neural network layers; and
summing the output of the convolutional neural network layers and the feature representation of the region of the image.
16. The method of any one of claims 14-15, wherein generating a coarse segmentation of the particular object comprises processing the detection features using one or more convolutional neural network layers.
17. The method of any one of claims 14-16, wherein generating an instance embedding of the particular object depicted in the region of the image using: (i) the detection features, and (ii) the coarse segmentation of the particular object, comprises:
generating instance-conditioned features by combining the detection features that are included in the coarse segmentation of the particular object; and
generating the instance embedding of the particular object depicted in the region of the image based at least in part on the instance-conditioned features.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein generating an instance embedding comprises processing the detection features and the coarse segmentation of the particular object using a function G(·,·) defined by:
where Xdet denotes the detection features, M denotes the coarse segmentation, * denotes elementwise product, and å denotes summation over spatial dimensions.
19. The method of any one of claims 14-18, wherein generating the segmentation of the particular object comprises processing the instance embedding of the particular object using one or more convolutional neural network layers.
20. One or more computer storage media storing instructions that when executed by one or more computers cause the one or more computers to perform the operations of the method of any one of claims 1-19.
21. A system comprising one or more computers and one or more storage devices storing instructions that when executed by the one or more computers cause the one or more computers to perform the operations of the method of claims 1-19.
</claims>
</document>
