<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B18/14,A61B34/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUITIVE SURGICAL OPERATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MANZO, SCOTT E.
MARION, DUANE W.
SHAH, JIGNESH
ROSS, ADAM
HEMPHILL, JASON
LATH, ADRIT
SCHOETTGEN, BENJAMIN J.
KHALAJI, Iman
NUSSBAUM, Matthew
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70919099
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLED GRASPING AND ENERGY DELIVERY
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods of controlled grasping and energy delivery include a computer-assisted device. The computer-assisted device includes an end effector and one or more processors. The end effector includes a first jaw, a second jaw, and a plurality of electrodes for delivering energy. The one or more processors are configured to grasp a material using the first jaw and the second jaw, determine characteristics of the grasp, determine characteristics of the material, and control one or more of the grasp or energy delivery by the plurality of electrodes based on the determined characteristics of the grasp and the determined characteristics of the material. According to some embodiments, the characteristics of the material include one or more of thermal, dielectric, or stiffness of the material. In some embodiments, the characteristics of the grasp include one or more of applied pressure, jaw angle, jaw separation, force, torque, or wrist articulation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-assisted device comprising:
an end effector having a first jaw, a second jaw, and a plurality of electrodes for delivering energy; and
one or more processors coupled to the end effector, the one or more processors being configured to:
grasp a material using the first jaw and the second jaw;
determine one or more characteristics of the grasp;
determine one or more characteristics of the material; and
control one or more of the grasp or energy delivery by the plurality of electrodes based on the determined one or more characteristics of the grasp and the determined one or more characteristics of the material.
2. The computer-assisted device of claim 1, wherein:
the end effector is part of a medical device; and
the material is anatomical tissue.
3. The computer-assisted device of claim 1, wherein to grasp the material the one or more processors actuate only the first jaw.
4. The computer-assisted device of claim 1, wherein to grasp the material the one or more processors actuate both the first jaw and the second jaw.
5. The computer-assisted device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of electrodes include a pair of sealing electrodes.
6. The computer-assisted device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of electrodes include a cutting electrode.
7. The computer-assisted device of claim 1, wherein the end effector further comprises a mechanical cutting element controlled by the one or more processors.
8. The computer-assisted device of claim 1, wherein the end effector includes one or more sensors, each of the one or more sensors being selected from a group consisting of a thermocouple, a thermal resistor, a strain gauge, a pressure transducer, an encoder, a potentiometer, and a fiber optic sensor.
9. The computer-assisted device of claim 1, wherein the one or more
characteristics of the grasp include one or more of:
a pressure applied to the material by the first and second jaws;
a rate of change in the pressure applied to the material by the first and second jaws; an angle between the first and second jaws;
a rate of change in the angle between the first and second jaws;
a separation between the first and second jaws;
a rate of change in separation between the first and second jaws;
a force or torque applied by the first and second jaws to the material;
a rate of change in the force or torque applied by the first and second jaws to the material;
a force or torque applied by an actuator used to actuate one or both of the first or second jaws;
a rate of change in the force or torque applied by the actuator; or
an amount of articulation of an articulated wrist coupling the end effector to a shaft.
10. The computer-assisted device of claim 1, wherein the one or more
characteristics of the material include one or more of:
a temperature of the material;
a rate of change in the temperature of the material;
a stiffness of the material;
a rate of change in the stiffness of the material.
an impedance of the material;
a rate of change in the impedance of the material;
a dielectric constant of the material; or
a rate of change in the dielectric constant of the material.
11. The computer-assisted device of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to determine a stiffness of the material or a pressure applied to the material by the first and second jaws from one or more of the characteristics of the grasp and/or readings from one or more sensors.
12. The computer-assisted device of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to determine a dielectric constant of the material or a temperature of the material from one or more of the characteristics of the grasp and one or more of the characteristics of the material, readings from one or more sensors, and/or by delivering non-therapeutic energy to the material.
13. The computer-assisted device of any one of claims 1-10, wherein to control the grasp or the energy delivery, the one or more processors are configured to:
provide one or more of the characteristics of the grasp or one or more of the characteristics of the material as inputs to one or more models; and
use one or more outputs of the one or more models as parameters to the controlling.
14. The computer-assisted device of claim 13, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to update the one or more models based on the control of the grasp or the energy delivery.
15. The computer-assisted device of claim 13, wherein the one or more models include one or more formulas, look up tables, fitted curves, maps, or neural networks.
16. The computer-assisted device of claim 13, wherein the one or more models include one or more calibration parameters for the end effector. 17. The computer-assisted device of claim 13, wherein the one or more models are usable for calibrating the end effector.
18. The computer-assisted device of any one of claims 1-10, wherein to control the energy delivery, the one or more processors are configured to control an amount of energy or amount of time energy is delivered based on one or more of the characteristics of the grasping and/or an energy delivery profile.
19. The computer-assisted device of any one of claims 1-10, wherein to control the grasp, the one or more processors are configured to control one or more parameters of the grasp based on one or more of the characteristics of the material.
20. The computer-assisted device of any one of claims 1-10, wherein to control the energy delivery, the one or more processors are configured to control an amount of sealing energy delivered and an amount of cutting energy delivered independently.
21. The computer-assisted device of any one of claims 1-10, wherein to control the energy delivery, the one or more processors are configured to apply sealing energy using a cutting electrode.
22. The computer-assisted device of any one of claims 1-10, wherein to control the grasp or the energy delivery, the one or more processors are configured to determine an ending condition for stopping the grasp or the energy delivery.
23. The computer-assisted device of claim 22, wherein the ending condition includes one or more of a threshold impedance of the material, a threshold dielectric constant of the material, a threshold temperature for the material that is to be reached, or a configurable period of time.
24. The computer-assisted device of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to stop the grasp or the energy delivery when one or more of the characteristics of the grasp or the characteristics of the material are outside a respective range of values or a configurable period of time elapses.
25. The computer-assisted device of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to switch between a default energy delivery profile and an energy delivery profile determined using one or more models based on one or more of the characteristics of the grasp or the characteristics of the material.
26. The computer-assisted device of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to provide information to an operator, the information including one or more of:
a prediction of a likelihood of successful grasping, cutting, or sealing;
a recommended delay time before beginning cutting or sealing; or
an estimated amount of time before cutting or sealing is complete.
27. A method comprising:
grasping, by one or more processors, a material using a first jaw and a second jaw of an end effector;
determining, by the one or more processors, one or more characteristics of the grasping;
determining, by the one or more processors, one or more characteristics of the material; and
controlling, by the one or more processors, one or more of the grasping or energy delivery by a plurality of electrodes of the end effector based on the determined one or more characteristics of the grasp and the determined one or more characteristics of the material.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein:
the end effector is part of a medical device; and
the material is anatomical tissue.
29. The method of claim 27, wherein grasping the material comprises actuating only the first jaw.
30. The method of claim 27, wherein grasping the material comprises actuating e both the first jaw and the second jaw.
31. The method of claim 27, wherein the plurality of electrodes include a pair of sealing electrodes.
32. The method of claim 27, wherein the plurality of electrodes include a cutting electrode.
33. The method of claim 27, further comprising actuating a mechanical cutting element.
34. The method of claim 27, further comprising reading one or more sensors, each of the one or more sensors being selected from a group consisting of a thermocouple, a thermal resistor, a strain gauge, a pressure transducer, an encoder, a potentiometer, and a fiber optic sensor.
35. The method of claim 27, wherein the one or more characteristics of the grasping include one or more of:
a pressure applied to the material by the first and second jaws;
a rate of change in the pressure applied to the material by the first and second jaws; an angle between the first and second jaws;
a rate of change in the angle between the first and second jaws;
a separation between the first and second jaws;
a rate of change in separation between the first and second jaws;
a force or torque applied by the first and second jaws to the material;
a rate of change in the force or torque applied by the first and second jaws to the material;
a force or torque applied by an actuator used to actuate one or both of the first or second jaws; a rate of change in the force or torque applied by the actuator; or
an amount of articulation of an articulated wrist coupling the end effector to a shaft.
36. The method of claim 27, wherein the one or more characteristics of the material include one or more of:
a temperature of the material;
a rate of change in the temperature of the material;
a stiffness of the material;
a rate of change in the stiffness of the material.
an impedance of the material;
a rate of change in the impedance of the material;
a dielectric constant of the material; or
a rate of change in the dielectric constant of the material.
37 The method of claim 27, further comprising determining a stiffness of the material or a pressure applied to the material by the first and second jaws from one or more of the characteristics of the grasp and/or readings from one or more sensors.
38. The method of claim 27, further comprising determining a dielectric constant of the material or a temperature of the material from one or more of the characteristics of the grasping and one or more of the characteristics of the material, readings from one or more sensors, and/or by delivering non-therapeutic energy to the material.
39. The method of claim 27, wherein controlling the grasping or the energy delivery, comprises:
providing one or more of the characteristics of the grasping or one or more of the characteristics of the material as inputs to one or more models; and
using one or more outputs of the one or more models as parameters to the controlling.
40. The method of claim 39, further comprising updating the one or more models based on the controlling of the grasping or the energy delivery.
41. The method of claim 39, wherein the one or more models include one or more formulas, look up tables, fitted curves, maps, or neural networks.
42. The method of claim 39, wherein the one or more models include one or more calibration parameters for the end effector.
43. The method of claim 39, wherein the one or more models are usable for calibrating the end effector.
44. The method of claim 27, wherein controlling the energy delivery comprises controlling an amount of energy or amount of time energy is delivered based on one or more of the characteristics of the grasping and/or an energy delivery profile.
45. The method of claim 27, wherein controlling the grasping comprises controlling one or more parameters of the grasping based on one or more of the characteristics of the material.
46. The method of claim 27, wherein controlling the energy delivery comprises controlling an amount of sealing energy delivered and an amount of cutting energy delivered independently.
47. The method of claim 27, wherein controlling the energy delivery comprises applying sealing energy using a cutting electrode.
48. The method of claim 27, wherein controlling the energy delivery comprises determining an ending condition for stopping the grasping or the energy delivery.
49. The method of claim 48, wherein the ending condition includes one or more of a threshold impedance of the material, a threshold dielectric constant of the material, a threshold temperature for the material that is to be reached, or a configurable period of time.
50. The method of claim 27, further comprising stopping the grasping or the energy delivery when one or more of the characteristics of the grasping or the characteristics of the material are outside a respective range of values or a configurable period of time elapses.
51. The method of claim 27, further comprising switching between a default energy delivery profile and an energy delivery profile determined using one or more models based on one or more of the characteristics of the grasping or the characteristics of the material. 52. The method of claim 27, further comprising providing information to an operator, the information including one or more of:
a prediction of a likelihood of successful grasping, cutting, or sealing;
a recommended delay time before beginning cutting or sealing; or
an estimated amount of time before cutting or sealing is complete.
53. A non-transitory machine-readable medium comprising a plurality of machinereadable instructions which when executed by one or more processors are adapted to cause the one or more processors to perform the method of any one of claims 27-52.
</claims>
</document>
