<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G11C13/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HPE (HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HU, MIAO
LI ZHIYONG
STRACHAN, JOHN PAUL
WILLIAMS, R. STANLEY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69950117
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
3D CROSS-BAR ARRAY OF NON-VOLATILE RESISTIVE MEMORY DEVICES AND AN OPERATING METHOD OF THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
A 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices includes an array of pillar electrodes, an array of word lines, a plurality of memristor cells, and a plurality of insulation walls. The array of pillar electrodes is arranged in a first direction and a second direction, and each of the pillar electrodes extends in a third direction. The array of word lines is arranged in the first direction and the third direction, and each of the word lines extends in the second direction. The plurality of memristor cells is formed at cross points of the pillar electrodes and the word lines around the pillar electrodes. The plurality of insulation walls is arranged in the first direction and electrically insulating a plurality of word lines arranged in the first direction from each other, and each of the insulation walls extends in the second and third directions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices comprising:
an array of pillar electrodes arranged in a first direction and a second direction, each of the pillar electrodes extending in a third direction;
an array of word lines arranged in the first direction and the third direction, each of the word lines extending in the second direction;
a plurality of memristor cells formed at cross points of the pillar electrodes and the word lines around the pillar electrodes; and
a plurality of insulation walls arranged in the first direction and electrically insulating a plurality of word lines arranged in the first direction from each other, each of the insulation walls extending in the second and third directions.
2. The 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices of claim 1, further comprising:
a plurality of selection elements connected to the array of pillar electrodes, respectively, in series; and
a plurality of selection lines, each of the selection lines being connected to a selection electrode of each of a plurality of selection elements connected to a plurality of pillar electrodes arranged in the first direction.
3. The 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices of claim 2, further comprising:
a control circuit configured to program data in each of arrays of memristor cells arranged in the second and third directions sequentially in the first direction during a first addressing mode, and program data in each of arrays of memristor cells arranged in the first and third directions sequentially in the second direction during a second addressing mode.
4. The 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices of claim 3, wherein the control circuit is configured to program first matrix values during the first addressing mode and program second matrix values during the second addressing mode to perform a matrix-matrix multiplication.
5. The 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices of claim 4, wherein the second matrix values are transposed matrix values of third matrix values to be multiplied by the first matrix values.
6. The 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices of claim 3, wherein the control circuit is configured to program first matrix values during the first addressing mode and then program second matrix values during the second addressing mode to perform a matrix-matrix multiplication of transposed matrix values of the second matrix values and the first matrix values.
7. The 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices of claim 1, further comprising:
a plurality of bit lines arranged in the second direction, each of the bit lines extending in the first direction and connected to a plurality of pillar electrodes arranged in the first direction.
8. The 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices of claim 1, wherein each of a plurality of pillar electrodes arranged in the second direction passes through a plurality of word lines arranged in the third direction.
9. The 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices of claim 1, wherein the third direction is a vertical direction with respect to a plane defined by a substrate on which the non-volatile resistive memory device is formed.
10. A method of performing a matrix-matrix multiplication on a 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices including an array of memristor cells arranged threedimensionally in a first direction, a second direction, and a third direction, the method comprising:
programing first matrix values in each of arrays of memristor cells arranged in the second and third directions sequentially in the first direction during a first addressing mode; programing second matrix values in each of arrays of memristor cells arranged in the first and third directions sequentially in the second direction during a second addressing mode; and reading values from memristor cells as a calculation result of the matrix-matrix multiplication of the first matrix values and the second matrix values.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the second matrix values are transposed matrix values of third matrix values to be multiplied by the first matrix values.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the programing the second matrix values during the second addressing mode is carried out after the programing the first matrix values during the first addressing mode.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices comprises:
an array of pillar electrodes arranged in the first and second directions, each of the pillar electrodes extending in the third direction;
an array of word lines arranged in the first and third directions, each of the word lines extending in the second direction; and
a plurality of memristor cells formed at cross points of the pillar electrodes and the word lines around the pillar electrodes.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices further comprises a plurality of insulation walls arranged in the first direction and electrically insulating a plurality of word lines arranged in the first direction from each other, each of the insulation walls extending in the second and third directions.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices further comprises:
a plurality of selection elements connected to the array of pillar electrodes, respectively, in series; and
a plurality of selection lines, each of the selection lines being connected to a selection electrode of each of a plurality of selection elements connected to a plurality of pillar electrodes arranged in the first direction.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices further comprises a plurality of bit lines arranged in the second direction, each of the bit lines extending in the first direction and connected to a plurality of pillar electrodes arranged in the first direction.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein each of a plurality of pillar electrodes arranged in the second direction passes through a plurality of word lines arranged in the third direction.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein the third direction is a vertical direction with respect to a plane defined by a substrate on which the 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices is formed.
19. A 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices comprising:
an array of pillar electrodes arranged in a first direction and a second direction, each of the pillar electrodes extending in a third direction;
an array of word lines arranged in the first direction and the third direction, each of the word lines extending in the second direction; and
a plurality of memristor cells formed at cross points of the pillar electrodes and the word lines around the pillar electrode.
20. The 3D cross-bar array of non-volatile resistive memory devices of claim 19, further comprising:
a control circuit configured to program data in each of arrays of memristor cells arranged in the second and third directions sequentially in the first direction during a first addressing mode, and program data in each of arrays of memristor cells arranged in the first and third directions sequentially in the second direction during a second addressing mode.
</claims>
</document>
