<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01F1/66,G01F23/28,G01F23/296,G01N29/22,G01N29/24,G01N29/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DUNE LABS INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, GALLIN
SARKISSIAN, GARO
BUCHAN, Bruce
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72747820
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ULTRASONIC FLOW METERING
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments include a novel, easy to install, non-intrusive, ultrasonic water flow meter with a self-calibrating three-piezoelectric transducer configuration attached externally to a water pipe, that allows for accurate measurement of water flow, and can provide the flow data to a remote system for billing and further analysis. The water flow data can further be analyzed for water consumption by individual fixtures, in support of conservation and usage management efforts.
</abstract>

<claims>
What It claimed Is:
1. An ultrasonic flow meter configured to be externally mounted on a pipe
through which a medium flows in a direction, the meter comprising:
first and second ultrasonic transducers, when said meter is externally
mounted on said pipe, configured to transmit and/or sense ultrasonic acoustic waves propagating primarily at oblique angles relative to the direction of flow of the medium through the pipe;
a third ultrasonic transducer, when said meter is mounted on said pipe,
configured to transmit and/or sense ultrasonic acoustic waves propagating primarily at a right angle relative to the direction of flow of the medium through the pipe; and
a processing system configured to calculate a flow rate for the medium
flowing through said pipe based on time of flight measurements made between said first and second ultrasonic transducers. 2. A flow meter according to claim 1 wherein said flow rate calculation has
reduced dependence on temperature of the medium, and said reduction is based at least in part on one or more time of flight measurements made by said third transducer. 3. A flow meter according to claim 2 wherein said reduced dependence on
temperature is an elimination of dependence on temperature.
4. A flow meter according to claim 2 wherein at least one of said one or more time of flight measurements made by said third transducer is made when said medium is present and not flowing through said pipe.
5. A method according to claim 2 wherein at least one of said one or more time of flight measurements made by said third transducer occurs contemporaneously with said measuring time of flight between first and second transducers.
6. A flow meter according to claim 1 wherein said calculating of a flow rate is based in part on a determination of an a diameter of the pipe derived at least in part on the one or more time of flight measurements made by said third transducer.
7. A flow meter according to claim 6 wherein the diameter is an inner diameter of the pipe.
8. A flow meter according to claim 6 wherein the diameter is an outer diameter of the pipe. 9. A flow meter according to claim 1 wherein said calculating of a flow rate is based in part on a cross-sectional area of said pipe derived at least in part from one or more of the time of flight measurements made by said third transducer. 10. A flow meter according to claim 1 wherein said medium is water and the
meter is a water flow meter.
11. A flow meter according to claim 1 wherein the first, second and third ultrasonic transducers are piezoelectric transceivers.
12. A flow meter according to claim 1 wherein said time of flight measurements made between said first and second ultrasonic transducers for said flow rate calculation includes measuring a difference in propagation time of ultrasonic waves when transmitted in upstream and downstream directions.
13. A flow meter according to claim 1 wherein said processing system is further configured to perform one or more self-calibration procedures when mounted on said pipe.
14. A flow meter according to claim 13 wherein the one or more self-calibration procedures includes compensating for mismatches in time-of-flight measured for ultrasound waves propagating in upstream and downstream directions at times when the medium is present in the pipe and not flowing.
15. A flow meter according to claim 13 wherein said one of said one or more selfcalibration procedures includes detecting ultrasonic acoustic waves travelling along an exterior surface of said pipe and generating therefrom one or more calibration factors for calculating a distance an ultrasonic acoustic wave travels in the medium.
16. A flow meter according to claim 1 further includes one or more temperature sensors configured to be coupled to the water pipe when said meter is externally mounted on said pipe, and said reduced dependence on temperature of the medium is based in part on known speed of sound variations due to temperature variations.
17. A flow meter according to claim 1 wherein said processing system is further configured to detect a presence or absence of ultrasonic acoustic waves travelling along an exterior surface of said pipe.
18. A flow meter according to claim 17 wherein said processing system is
configured to detect tampering based at least in part on detecting an absence of ultrasonic acoustic waves travelling along an exterior surface of said pipe.
19. A flow meter according to claim 17 wherein said processing system is
configured to conserve power in part by detecting an absence of ultrasonic acoustic waves travelling along an exterior surface of said pipe.
20. A flow meter system comprising the flow meter of claim 1 ; and at least one display device remote from said flow meter that is configured to display information based at least in part on flow rates measured by said flow meter.
21. A flow meter system according to claim 20 wherein said display device is a multi-purpose mobile computing device. 22. A flow meter according to claim 1 further comprising a carrier assembly on which said first, second and third ultrasonic transducers are mounted and said configured to be externally mounted on said pipe such that said first, second and third ultrasonic transducers are in a fixed position with respect to and can send and receive ultrasonic waves to and from an external surface of said Pipe.
23. A flow meter according to claim 22 further comprising a clamping mechanism configured to securely hold said carrier assembly onto said external surface of said pipe.
24. A flow meter according to claim 1 further comprising a battery module
configured to supply power to the flow meter for prolonged periods without other power sources. 25. An ultrasonic flow metering system comprising:
a flow meter configured to be externally mounted on a pipe through which water flows in a direction, the meter comprising:
first and second ultrasonic piezoelectric transceivers, when said meter is externally mounted on said pipe, configured to transmit and sense ultrasonic acoustic waves propagating primarily at oblique angles relative to the direction of flow of the water through the Pipe;
a third ultrasonic piezoelectric transceivers, when said meter is
mounted on said pipe, configured to transmit and sense ultrasonic acoustic waves propagating primarily at a right angle relative to the direction of flow of the water through the pipe; a carrier assembly on which said first, second and third ultrasonic
transceivers are mounted and said configured to be externally mounted on said pipe such that said first, second and third
ultrasonic transceivers are in a fixed position with respect to and can send and receive ultrasonic waves to and from an external surface of said pipe;
a clamping mechanism configured to securely hold said carrier
assembly onto said external surface of said pipe,
a battery module configured to supply power to the flow meter for prolonged periods without other power sources; and
a processing system configured to calculate a flow rate for the water flowing through said pipe based on time of flight measurements made between said first and second ultrasonic transceivers and determining therefrom a difference in propagation time of ultrasonic waves when transmitted in upstream and downstream directions, said flow rate calculation having reduced
dependence on temperature of the water, and said reduction is based in part on a determination of an inner diameter of the pipe made from time of flight measurements made by said third transceiver is made when the water is present and not flowing through said pipe, and said reduction is further based on time of flight measurements made while the water is flowing in the pipe by said third transceiver and by said first and second
transceivers;
a server located in a location remote from said flow meter, said server in wireless communication with said flow meter and having a memory storage system configured to store information based on flow rates measured by said flow meter; and
display device on a multi-purpose mobile computing device at a location
remote from said flow meter, the display device being configured to display information based on flow rates measured by said flow meter.
26. A method for measuring of a medium flowing through a pipe, the method comprises: measuring time of flight of ultrasonic pulses propagating between first and second ultrasonic transducers being mounted externally on said pipe, the ultrasonic pulses propagating through a wall of the pipe a first time, propagating through said medium flowing in the pipe, the pulse propagation being at an oblique angle with respect to a direction of flow of the medium though the pipe, and propagating through the wall of the pipe a second time;
measuring time of flight of ultrasonic pulses from a third ultrasonic transducer, the ultrasonic pulses propagating through a wall of the pipe a first time, propagating through said medium flowing in the pipe, the pulse propagation being substantially at a right angle with respect to a direction of flow of the medium though the pipe, and propagating through the wall of the pipe a second time; and
calculating, by a processing system, said flow rate for the medium flowing through said pipe based on said time of flight measurements made between the first and second ultrasonic transducers.
27. A method according to claim 26 wherein the flow rate calculation has reduced dependence on temperature of the medium, said reduction based at least in part on said time of flight measurements made by said third transducer.
28. A method according to claim 27 wherein said reduction of temperature
dependence is based at least in part on a determination of an inner diameter of the pipe based on the one or more time of flight measurements made by said third transducer.
29. A method according to claim 27 wherein said measuring time of flight from said third transducer occurs before said measuring time of flight between first and second transducers, and said measuring time of flight from said third transducer is made when said medium is present and not flowing through said pipe.
30. A method according to claim 27 wherein said measuring time of flight from said third transducer occurs contemporaneously with said measuring time of flight between first and second transducers. 31. A method according to claim 26 wherein said medium is water.
32. A method according to claim 26 further comprising performing one or more self-calibration procedures when mounted on said pipe, include compensating for mismatches in time-of-flight measured for ultrasound waves propagating in upstream and downstream directions at times when the medium in the pipe is not flowing.
33. A method according to daim 26 further comprising detecting a presence or absence of ultrasonic acoustic waves travelling along an exterior surface of said pipe wall.
34. A method according to daim 26 further comprising displaying information based at least in part on said calculated flow rates on display device located remotely from said pipe.
35. A method according to daim 34 wherein said display device is a multipurpose mobile computing device.
36. A method according to daim 26 further comprising mounting a carrier
assembly on which said first, second and third ultrasonic transducers are carried, said mounting induding damping said carrier to an exterior surface of said pipe wall such that said first, second and third ultrasonic transducers are in a fixed position with respect to and can send and receive ultrasonic waves to and from an external surface of said pipe
</claims>
</document>
