<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T3/40,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SU WEI
LIU XIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67138148
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC IMAGE RESOLUTION ASSESSMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for image resolution assessment of a digital image includes extracting a plurality of image chips from the digital image according to a predetermined sampling pattern. A Gaussian window is applied to each image chip of the plurality of image chips to generate a plurality of processed image chips. Two-dimensional (2D) energy spectrum is determined for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips using a discrete Fourier transformation (DFT). One-dimensional (1D) energy spectrum is determined for each processed image chip of the plurality of image chips using the 2D energy spectrum. A threshold is applied to the 1D energy spectrum to obtain an image resolution for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips. A video characteristic of the digital image is adjusted based on a maximum image resolution of the image resolutions determined for the plurality of processed image chips.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computerimplemented method for image resolution assessment of a digital image, the method comprising:
extracting a plurality of image chips from the digital image according to a predetermined sampling pattern;
applying a Gaussian window to each image chip of the plurality of image chips to generate a plurality of processed image chips;
determining two-dimensional (2D) energy spectrum for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips using a discrete Fourier transformation (DFT);
determining one-dimensional (ID) energy spectrum for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips using the determined 2D energy spectrum;
obtaining an image resolution for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips by applying a threshold to the determined ID energy spectrum; and
adjusting a video characteristic of the digital image based on a maximum image resolution of the image resolutions determined for the plurality of processed image chips.
2. The computerimplemented method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting the pre -determined sampling pattern from a plurality of pre determined sampling patterns based on a received input.
3. The computerimplemented method of claim 1, wherein the
predetermined sampling pattern is one of:
a five -point diamond pattern, wherein a total of 5 image chips are selected as the plurality of image chips from intersecting points of 3 vertical and 3 horizontal axes of the digital image;
a nine-point diamond pattern, wherein a total of 9 image chips are selected as the plurality of image chips from intersecting points of 5 vertical and 5 horizontal axes of the digital image; a nine-point square pattern, wherein a total of 9 image chips are selected as the plurality of image chips from intersecting points of 3 vertical and 3 horizontal axes of the digital image; and
a thirteen-point square pattern, wherein a total of 13 image chips are selected as the plurality of image chips from intersecting points of 5 vertical and 5 horizontal axes of the digital image.
4. The computerimplemented method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the ID energy spectrum for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips includes accumulating the determined 2D energy spectrum along a plurality of directions between pixels within each processed image chip.
5. The computerimplemented method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the ID energy spectrum for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips includes:
folding the 2D energy spectrum of the processed image chip vertically along an x-axis of a coordinate system; and
summing 2D energy values of pixels that are symmetric in relation to the x-axis, to obtain 2D vertically-folded energy spectrum.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the determining of the ID energy spectrum for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips further includes:
folding the 2D verticallyfolded energy spectrum of the processed image chip horizontally along a y-axis of the coordinate system;
summing 2D energy values of pixels that are symmetric in relation to the y-axis, to obtain 2D horizontally-folded energy spectrum; and
determining the ID energy spectrum for the processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips by accumulating the 2D horizontallyfolded energy spectrum along a plurality of directions between pixels within the processed image chip.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the video characteristic of the digital image comprises:
down-sampling a video stream including the digital image based on the maximum image resolution of the image resolutions determined for the plurality of processed image chips.
8. The computerimplemented method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the 2D energy spectrum, the determining of the ID energy spectrum, and the applying of the threshold to the determined ID energy spectrum to obtain the image resolution are performed in parallel for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips.
9. A system comprising:
a memory storing instructions; and
one or more processors in communication with the memory, wherein the one or more processors execute the instructions to:
extract a plurality of image chips from a digital image according to a predetermined sampling pattern;
apply a Gaussian window to each image chip of the plurality of image chips to generate a plurality of processed image chips;
determine two-dimensional (2D) energy spectrum for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips using a discrete Fourier transformation (DFT);
determine one-dimensional (ID) energy spectrum for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips using the determined 2D energy spectrum;
obtain an image resolution for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips by applying a threshold to the determined ID energy spectrum; and
adjust a video characteristic of the digital image based on a maximum image resolution of the image resolutions determined for the plurality of processed image chips.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors execute the instructions to:
select the pre-determined sampling pattern from a plurality of pre determined sampling patterns based on a received input.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein determining the ID energy spectrum for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips includes accumulating the determined 2D energy spectrum along a plurality of directions between pixels within each processed image chip.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein to determine the ID energy spectrum for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips, the one or more processors execute the instructions to:
fold the 2D energy spectrum of the processed image chip vertically along an x-axis of a coordinate system; and
sum 2D energy values of pixels that are symmetric in relation to the xaxis, to obtain 2D vertically-folded energy spectrum.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein to determine the ID energy spectrum for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips, the one or more processors further execute the instructions to:
fold the 2D verticallyfolded energy spectrum of the processed image chip horizontally along a y-axis of the coordinate system;
sum 2D energy values of pixels that are symmetric in relation to the yaxis, to obtain 2D horizontallyfolded energy spectrum; and
determine the ID energy spectrum for the processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips by accumulating the 2D horizontallyfolded energy spectrum along a plurality of directions between pixels within the processed image chip.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein to adjust the video characteristic of the digital image, the one or more processors execute the instructions to: down-sample a video stream including the digital image based on the maximum image resolution of the image resolutions determined for the plurality of processed image chips.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors execute the instructions to:
perform determining of the 2D energy spectrum, the ID energy spectrum, and the image resolution in parallel for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips.
16. A computer-readable medium storing computer instructions for image resolution assessment of a digital image, wherein the instructions when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
extracting a plurality of image chips from the digital image according to a predetermined sampling pattern;
applying a Gaussian window to each image chip of the plurality of image chips to generate a plurality of processed image chips;
determining two-dimensional (2D) energy spectrum for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips using a discrete Fourier transformation (DFT);
determining one-dimensional (ID) energy spectrum for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips using the determined 2D energy spectrum;
obtaining an image resolution for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips by applying a threshold to the determined ID energy spectrum; and
adjusting a video characteristic of the digital image based on a maximum image resolution of the image resolutions determined for the plurality of processed image chips.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to perform steps of:
selecting the pre-determined sampling pattern from a plurality of pre determined sampling patterns based on a received input.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein to determine the
1 D energy spectrum for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips, the instructions further cause the one or more processors to perform steps of:
accumulating the determined 2D energy spectrum along a plurality of directions between pixels within each processed image chip.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein to determine the
1 D energy spectrum for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips, the instructions further cause the one or more processors to perform steps of:
folding the 2D energy spectrum of the processed image chip vertically along an x-axis of a coordinate system; and
summing 2D energy values of pixels that are symmetric in relation to the x-axis, to obtain 2D vertically-folded energy spectrum.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein to determine the
1 D energy spectrum for each processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips, the instructions further cause the one or more processors to perform steps of:
folding the 2D verticallyfolded energy spectrum of the processed image chip horizontally along a y-axis of the coordinate system;
summing 2D energy values of pixels that are symmetric in relation to the y-axis, to obtain 2D horizontally-folded energy spectrum; and
determining the ID energy spectrum for the processed image chip of the plurality of processed image chips by accumulating the 2D horizontallyfolded energy spectrum along a plurality of directions between pixels within the processed image chip.
</claims>
</document>
