<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/00,G06T7/12,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDTRONIC NAVIGATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
WALD, ANDREW
RONEN, SHAI
HELM, PATRICK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70285861
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR IDENTIFYING AN OBJECT IN AN IMAGE
</title>

<abstract>
An image segmentation system and display is disclosed. The system may be operated or configured to generate a segmentation of a member from an image. The image and/or the segmentation may be displayed for viewing by a user.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method of training a system for identifying from an image a physical member within the image, comprising:
generating a training data set, including:
generating an image of the physical member according to a selected imaging modality, wherein the image is at least one image;
overlaying the generated image of the physical member on a pre-acquired image, wherein the pre-acquired image is acquired with the selected imaging modality;
saving a training image including the pre-acquired image with the generated image of the physical member therein; and
accessing a grade of the position of the overlaid generated image of the physical member on a pre-acquired image;
training an inputted neural network with the generated training image data set; and
outputting a trained model based on the neural network trained with the generated training data set.
2. The method of Claim 1, further comprising:
storing the trained model.
3. The method of any one of Claims 1 or 2, further comprising:
accessing a subject image data;
analyzing the accessed image data with the inputted neural network and the trained model;
segmenting the physical member represented in the subject image data based on the analysis; and
outputting at least a graphical representation of the segmentation of the physical member.
4. The method of Claim 3, wherein segmenting includes determining an edge of a physical element represented in the image data based on the analysis.
5. The method of Claim 3, further comprising:
outputting a suggested grade of a determined position of the physical member in the subject image data based on the segmented physical member.
6. The method of Claim 5, wherein the segmented physical member includes a position relative to at least one other feature in the subject image data.
7. The method of Claim 5, further comprising:
displaying the graphical representation of the physical member based on the segmentation and the suggested grade.
8. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 7, further comprising:
creating the neural network; and
saving the created neural network.
9. The method of Claim 8, wherein the neural network is a convolutional neural network.
10. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 9, further comprising:
saving the outputted trained model for access to analyze subject image data.
1 1. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 10, wherein generating the training data set further comprises:
generating a plurality of images of the physical member;
accessing a plurality of pre-acquired images;
generating a plurality of training images by positioning at least one generated image of the physical member of the generated plurality of images of the physical member within each pre-acquired image of the accessed plurality of pre-acquired images; accessing a grade of the position of the overlaid generated image of the physical member for each training image of the plurality of training images; and
saving at least a sub-plurality of the training images of the generated plurality of training images.
12. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 1 1, wherein accessing the grade of the position of the overlaid generated image of the physical member further comprises:
displaying a position of the overlaid generated image of the physical member; and receiving an input of a user regarded the displayed position.
13. The method of Claim 12, wherein accessing the grade of the position of the overlaid generated image of the physical member further comprises:
predetermining a position of the overlaid generated image of the physical member;
predetermining a grade of the predetermined position; and
including the predetermined grade with the generated training image data set for the training the inputted neural network with the generated training image data set.
14. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 13, wherein generating the image comprises generating a plurality of images.
15. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 13 wherein generating the image comprises generating a plurality of 2D images from multiple viewpoints.
16. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 13, wherein generating the image comprises generating a 3D image.
17. A method of training a system for identifying from an image a physical member within the image, comprising:
generating a training data set, comprises: generating an image of the physical member according to a selected imaging modality, wherein the generated image includes at least one image that is at least one of a 2D image or a 3D image;
overlaying the generated image of the physical member on a pre-acquired image at a first position, wherein the pre-acquired image is acquired with the selected imaging modality;
saving a training image including the pre-acquired image with the generated image of the physical member at the first position; and
receiving an input of a grade of the first position of the overlaid generated image of the physical member on the pre-acquired image;
training an inputted neural network with the generated training image data set; and
outputting a trained model based on the neural network trained with the generated training data set.
18. The method of Claim 17, wherein generating the training data set further comprises:
overlaying the generated image of the physical member on the pre-acquired image at a plurality of positions, wherein the pre-acquired image is acquired with the selected imaging modality;
saving a plurality of training images, wherein each training image includes the pre-acquired image with the generated image of the physical member at one position of the plurality of positions; and
receiving the input of the grade for each training image of the plurality of training images.
19. The method of Claim 17, wherein generating the training data set further comprises:
accessing a plurality of pre-acquired images;
overlaying the generated image of the physical member on each pre-acquired image, wherein each pre-acquired image is acquired with the selected imaging modality; saving a plurality of training images, wherein each training image includes one of the acquired plurality of pre-acquired images with the generated image of the physical member; and
receiving the input of the grade for each training image of the plurality of training images.
20. The method of any one of Claims 17 to 19, further comprising:
accessing a procedure image of a subject separate from the pre-acquired image having a member within the subject image;
accessing the output trained model based on the neural network trained with the generated training data set; and
outputting a grade of a segmented position of the member within the subject image based on the accessed output trained model.
21. The method of Claim 20, further comprising:
segmenting the member from the accessing procedure image of the subject; and displaying the segmented member with a display device.
22. A system to segment from an image a physical member within the image, comprising:
a memory system configured to store a neural network;
an input system accessible by a user to input a grade;
a processor system operable to generate a training data set by executing instructions that comprise:
overlay a generated image of the physical member on a pre-acquired image at a first position, wherein the pre-acquired image and the generated image of the physical member are formed with a selected imaging modality;
generate a training image including the pre-acquired image with the generated image of the physical member at the first position; and
receive an input from the input system of a grade of the first position of the overlaid generated image of the physical member in the training image; train the stored neural network with the generated training image data set; and
output a trained model based on the neural network trained with the generated training data set.
23. The system of Claim 22, wherein the processor system is further able to generate execute instructions that comprise:
accessing a subject image data;
accessing the stored neural network; and
segment the member from the subject image data based on the accessed stored neural network; and
output a grade of the segmented member based on the accessed stored neural network.
24. The system of any one of Claims 22 or 23, wherein the processor system is further able to execute instructions that comprise generating an image of the physical member according to the selected imaging modality.
</claims>
</document>
