<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A41C3/00,A41F1/00,A43B3/00,A43C11/00,G01B5/30,G01C11/00,G01C15/14,G01W1/02,G06F1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NIKE
</assignee>

<inventors>
NGUYEN, NINA
PHEIL, HOLLI
SCHNEIDER, SUMMER L.
BISHOP, JENNIFER
BRANDT, BARON C.
GRENING, Shawn
MORRISON, Catherine
JUDELSON, Daniel
HORNE, Todd
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73549444
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADAPTIVE SUPPORT APPAREL SYSTEMS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and apparatus related to adaptive support garments including adaptive support structures, lacing systems, and an adaptive engine are discussed. In an example, an adaptive support apparel system includes an activity sensor, an adaptive support garment, and a control circuit. The activity sensor monitors activity of a user. The adaptive support garment includes an integrated adaptive support system coupled to the adaptive engine to automatically adjust a portion of the adaptive support garment through manipulation of the adaptive support system. The control circuit configured to send commands to the adaptive engine in response to input received from the activity sensor.
</abstract>

<claims>
T3ie claimed invention includes;
1. An adaptive support apparel system comprising:
an activity sensor monitoring activity of a user;
an adaptive support garment including an adaptive support system integrated into the adaptive support garment and an adaptive engine coupled to the adaptive support system to automatically adjust a portion of the adaptive support garment through manipulation of the adaptive support system; and
a control circuit configured to send commands to the adaptive engine in response to input received from the activity sensor.
2. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 1 , wherein the control circuit is configured to select a pre-defined activity classification based on data received from the activity sensor.
3. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 2, wherein the pre-defined activity classifications include high impact and comfort.
4. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 2, wherein the control circuit is further configured to determine a support level based on the selected pre-defined activity classification.
5. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 4, wherein the adaptive engine adjusts the adaptive support system based on control commands received from the control circuit corresponding to the determined support level.
6. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 1, wherein the activity sensor is embedded within a footwear assembly.
7. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 6, wherein the activity sensor is configured to detect foot strike activity.
8. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 7, wherein the control circuit is configured to receive foot strike activity data from the activity sensor and calculate a pre-defmed activity classification based on the foot strike activity data.
9. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 6, wherein the activity sensor is an inertial measurement unit (IMU).
10. The adaptive support apparel system of claim l , wherein the activity sensor is embedded within the adaptive support garment.
11. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 10, wherein the activity sensor is configured to detect soft tissue movement.
12. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 11, wherein the adaptive support garment is a bra and the activity sensor is disposed within a portion of a breast contacting surface.
13. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 10, wherein the adaptive support garment is a bra and the activity sensor is disposed within a shoulder strap.
14. The adaptive support apparel system of any one of claims 10, wherein the activity sensor includes at least one of the following:
an accelerometer;
a gyroscope;
a magnetometer:
a global positioning sensor (GPS);
a heart rate monitor;
a temperature sensor; or a strain gauge.
15. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is disposed within a computing device including a display and a communication circuit.
16. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 15, wherein the
communication circuit is configured to send commands to the adaptive engine wirelessly.
17. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 15, wherein the computing device is one of a smart watch, a smartphone, or a heart rate monitor.
18. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 1 , wherein the adaptive support system includes lacing connecting separate portions of the adaptive support garment, wherein the lacing is adjustable to alter relative positions of the separate portions of the adaptive support garment to produce different support
characteristics.
19. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 18, wherein the adaptive support system includes a plurality of lace guides to route the lacing through the separate portions of the adaptive support garment.
20. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 18, wherein at least one segment of the lacing is coupled to a lace spool component of the adaptive engine to enable the adaptive engine to alter an effective length of the lacing.
21. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to analyze data received from the activity sensor to determine whether to adjust the adaptive support system integrated into the adaptive support garment.
22. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 21, wherein upon determining that an adjustment to the adaptive support system is needed, sending an adjustment command to the adaptive engine to perform the adjustment.
23. An adaptive support apparel system comprising:
an activity sensor monitoring a parameter indicative of an acti vity level of a user;
an adaptive support garment including an adaptive support system integrated into the adaptive support garment and an adaptive engine coupled to the adaptive support system to adjust a first portion of the adaptive support garment relative to a second portion of the adaptive support garment through manipulation of the adaptive support system; and
a control circuit configured to send commands to the adaptive engine in response to input received from the activity sensor.
24. An adaptive support apparel system comprising:
an adaptive support garment including an adaptive support system integrated into the adaptive support garment and an adaptive engine coupled to the adaptive support system to adjust a first portion of the adaptive support garment relative to a second portion of the adaptive support garment through manipulation of the adaptive support system: and
a control circuit configured to control the adaptive engine in response to input received indicative of an activity level of a user.
25. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 24, further comprising a wearable computing device including a user interface configured to accept inputs indicative of the activity level of the user; and
wherein the control circuit is configured to receive the activity level from the wearable computing device.
26. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 24, further comprising an activity sensor monitoring activity of the user; and
wherein the control circuit is configured to process input received from the activity sensor to control the adaptive engine.
27. The adaptive support apparel system of claim 26, wherein the control circuit sends pre-defined support level commands to the adaptive engine based on the input received from the activity sensor.
</claims>
</document>
