<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/048,G06Q10/10,G06Q50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PAYPAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAMAKRISHNAN, SRIRAM
DAMODHARAN, Dinesh
RANJAN, Sumit
CHANDRASEKARAN, Ravi Shankar
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74044807
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REAL-TIME SUGGESTED ACTIONS BASED ON USER PROFILE ATTRIBUTES
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed relating to generating real-time suggested actions for a user based on their user profile attributes. In various embodiments, a server system may select, in real-time, a particular action to suggest to a user based on profile attributes associated with a user account of the user. The server system may then provide a message indicative of this particular action to a user device associated with the user. In some embodiments, the server system may then receive an indication that the user has initiated the particular action. In response to this indication, the server system may update the profile attributes associated with the user account to indicate that the user has initiated the particular action. Using these updated profile attributes, the server system may then select, in real-time, an updated action to suggest to the user that is different from the particular action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising:
selecting, in real-time by a server system, a particular action to suggest to a user, wherein the particular action is selected using profile attributes associated with a user account of the user; providing, by the server system, a message indicative of the particular action to a user device associated with the user;
receiving, by the server system, an indication that the user has initiated the particular action;
in response to the indication, updating the profile attributes associated with the user account to generate updated profile attributes, wherein the updated profile attributes indicate that the user has initiated the particular action; and
based on the updated profile attributes, selecting, in real-time by the server system, an updated action to suggest to the user, wherein the updated action differs from the particular action.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting the particular action includes:
accessing the profile attributes associated with the user account, wherein the profile attributes are updated in real-time based on activity associated with the user account;
filtering a set of potential actions based on the profile attributes of the user account to identify a subset of potential actions to suggest to the user;
determining a priority score for each of the subset of potential actions; and
selecting the particular action, from the subset of potential actions, based on the priority scores.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the priority scores are propensity scores, wherein the determining the priority scores includes applying a machine learning model to generate the propensity scores for the subset of potential actions.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the machine learning model is an ensemble model based on a gradient-boosted decision tree.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein each of the subset of potential actions is associated with an assigned priority score, wherein the particular action is selected based on the assigned priority scores associated with the subset of potential actions.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein at least one potential action of the subset of potential actions is associated with a plurality of assigned priority scores, wherein the determining the priority score for the at least one potential action includes selecting one of the plurality of assigned priority scores based on the profile attributes associated with the user account.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving, by the server system from a client device, an access request to access a service provided by the server system, wherein the selecting the particular action to suggest to the user is performed in response to the access request; and
selecting, by the server system, a corresponding presentation format for the particular action based on an access method used to send the access request, wherein the providing the particular action to the user device includes sending the message indicative of the particular action to the user device such that, when presented via the user device, the message is depicted based on the corresponding presentation format.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the user device is a mobile communication device, wherein the access request indicates that a software application executing on the mobile communication device was used as the access method to send the access request.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the providing the particular action to the user device includes providing a plurality of potential actions to the user device such that, when depicted via the user device, the plurality of potential actions are presented in positions based on corresponding priority scores for the plurality of potential actions.
10. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon that are executable by a server system to perform operations comprising:
selecting, in real-time by, a specific action, from a set of potential actions, to suggest to a user, wherein the specific action is selected using profile attributes associated with a user account of the user;
sending, to a user device associated with the user, a message that indicates the specific action;
receiving an indication that the user has initiated the specific action; in response to the indication, updating the profile attributes associated with the user account such that the profile attributes indicate that the user has initiated the specific action; and
based on the updated profile attributes, determining, in real-time, an updated action to suggest to the user, wherein the updated action differs from the specific action.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the selecting the specific action includes:
accessing the profile attributes associated with the user account, wherein the profile attributes are updated in real-time based on activity associated with the user account;
identifying, from a set of potential actions, a subset of potential actions to suggest to the user based on the profile attributes of the user account;
determining a priority score for each of the subset of potential actions; and
selecting the specific action, from the subset of potential actions, based on the priority scores.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the priority scores are propensity scores, wherein the determining the priority scores includes applying a machine learning model to generate the propensity scores for the subset of potential actions.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 10, the operations further comprising:
receiving, from a client device, an access request to access a service provided by the server system, wherein the selecting the particular action to suggest to the user is performed in response to the access request; and
selecting a corresponding presentation format for the particular action based on an access method used to send the access request, wherein the message that indicates the specific action is configured such that, when presented via the user device, the message is depicted based on the corresponding presentation format.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 10, the operations further comprising:
monitoring activity associated with the user account; and in response to detecting one or more actions associated with the user account, updating the profile attributes associated with the user account in real-time to indicate that the one or more actions have been performed.
15. A system, comprising:
a non-transitory memory storing instructions; and
a processor configured to execute the instructions to cause the system to:
receive, from a client device, a request to access a service provided by the system, wherein the request identifies a user account associated with a user of the service;
in response to the request, access a set of potential actions to suggest to the user; select, in real-time following the request, a particular action, from the set of potential actions, to provide to the client device, wherein the selecting includes:
accessing a database that includes profile attributes associated with the user account of the user, wherein the profile attributes include information indicative of activity associated with the user account within a particular time period;
determining a priority score for one or more of the set of potential actions; and
selecting the particular action based on the priority scores; and
send a message, to the client device, that identifies the particular action.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the priority scores are propensity scores, and wherein, to determine the priority scores, the processor is configured to execute the instructions to further cause the system to apply a machine learning model to generate the propensity scores for the one or more of the set of potential actions.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein each of the one or more of the set of potential actions is associated with an assigned priority score, wherein the particular action is selected based on the assigned priority scores.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the processor is configured to execute the instructions to further cause the system to:
receive an indication that the user has initiated the particular action; in response to the indication, update the profile attributes associated with the user account to generate updated profile attributes, wherein the updated profile attributes indicate that the user has initiated the particular action; and
based on the updated profile attributes, determine, in real-time, an updated action to suggest to the user, wherein the updated action differs from the particular action.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the processor is configured to execute the instructions to further cause the system to:
receive, from the client device, an access request to access a service provided by the system, wherein selecting the particular action to suggest to the user is performed in response to the access request; and
select a corresponding presentation format for the particular action based on an access method used to send the access request, wherein the message indicative of the particular action is formatted based on the corresponding presentation format.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the processor configured to execute the instructions to further cause the system to:
monitor activity associated with the user account; and
in response to detecting one or more actions associated with the user account, update the profile attributes associated with the user account in real-time to indicate that the one or more actions have been performed.
</claims>
</document>
