<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/177
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HE, YEYE
WANG PEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70166159
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LEVERAGING A COLLECTION OF TRAINING TABLES TO ACCURATELY PREDICT ERRORS WITHIN A VARIETY OF TABLES
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to systems, methods, and computer-readable media for using a variety of hypothesis tests to identify errors within tables and other structured datasets. For example, systems disclosed herein can generate a modified table from an input table by removing one or more entries from the input table. The systems disclosed herein can further leverage a collection of training tables to determine probabilities associated with whether the input table and modified table are drawn from the collection of training tables. The systems disclosed herein can additionally compare the probabilities to accurately determine whether the one or more entries include errors therein. The systems disclosed herein may apply to a variety of different sizes and types of tables to identify different types of common errors within input tables.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising:
receiving an input table comprising a plurality of entries, wherein each entry of the plurality of entries comprises an associated value;
removing one or more entries from the plurality of entries to generate a modified input table;
determining a first probability that the input table is drawn from a plurality of training tables;
determining a second probability that the modified input table is drawn from the plurality of training tables; and
determining that the one or more entries removed from the input table contain an error based on a comparison of the first probability and the second probability.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying the plurality of training tables by identifying a subset of training tables from a collection of training tables based on one or more shared features of the input table and the subset of training tables, wherein the one or more shared features comprise one or more of: .
a datatype of the plurality of entries;
a number of entries from the plurality of entries;
a number of rows of entries from the plurality of entries; or
a value prevalence associated with values from the plurality of entries.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
identifying a maximum perturbation value for generating the modified input table, the maximum perturbation value indicating a maximum number or a maximum percentage of entries to remove from the plurality of entries when generating the modified input table; and
selectively identifying a number of the one or more entries to remove from the plurality of entries based on the maximum perturbation value.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying the one or more entries by applying a minimization model to the input table, wherein the minimization model identifies the one or more entries based on a minimum expected ratio between the first probability and the second probability.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
tagging the one or more entries of the input table; and
providing an indication of the tagging via a graphical user interface of a client device in conjunction with a presentation of the input table.
6. A method, comprising:
accessing a collection of training tables, wherein the collection of training tables comprises a plurality of training tables organized in rows and columns of entry values; and training a table perturbation model based on the collection of training tables that, when applied to a given table, selectively identifies one or more errors within entries of the given table by:
generating a modified table by removing one or more entries from the given table;
determining a first probability that the given table is drawn from the collection of training tables;
determining a second probability that the modified table is drawn from the collection of training tables; and
determining that the one or more entries from the given table contains an error based on a comparison of the first probability and the second probability.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising applying the table perturbation model to an input table comprising a plurality of table entries to identify one or more errors within the plurality of table entries.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising:
identifying one or more predicted errors within the plurality of table entries based on applying the table perturbation model to respective columns of the input table;
tagging one or more entries of the plurality of table entries associated with the identified one or more predicted errors; and
providing an indication of tagging via a graphical user interface of a client device in conjunction with a presentation of the input table.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the table perturbation model is further trained to selectively identify the one or more errors within entries of the given table by identifying a subset of training tables from the collection of training tables based on one or more shared features of the given table and the subset of training tables.
10. A system, comprising:
one or more processors;
memory in electronic communication with the one or more processors; and instructions stored in the memory, the instructions being executable by the one or more processors to cause a computing device to: receive an input table comprising a plurality of entries, wherein each entry of the plurality of entries comprises an associated value;
remove one or more entries from the plurality of entries to generate a modified input table;
determine a first probability that the input table is drawn from a plurality of training tables;
determine a second probability that the modified input table is drawn from the plurality of training tables; and
determine that the one or more entries removed from the input table contain an error based on a comparison of the first probability and the second probability.
11. The system of claim 10, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing device to:
identify the plurality of training tables by identifying a subset of training tables from a collection of training tables based on one or more shared features of the input table and the subset of training tables;
wherein determining the first probability that the input table is drawn from the plurality of training tables comprises determining the first probability based on a comparison of entries of the input table and the subset of training tables; and
wherein determining the second probability that the modified input table is drawn from the plurality of training tables comprises determining the second probability based on a comparison of entries of the modified input table and the subset of training tables.
12. The system of claim 10, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing device to:
apply a likelihood ratio minimization model over a plurality of subsets of the input table trained to identify a predetermined number of numeric outliers that, when removed from the input table, corresponds to the modified input table predicted to minimize a ratio between the first probability and the second probability.
13. The system of claim 10, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing device to:
apply a likelihood ratio minimization model over a plurality of subsets of the input table trained to identify a predetermined number of text-based entries based on a minimum pair-wise edit distance between the predetermined number of text-based entries that, when removed from the input table, corresponds to the modified input table predicted to minimize a ratio between the first probability and the second probability.
14. The system of claim 10, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing device to:
apply a likelihood ratio minimization model over a plurality of subsets of the input table trained to identify a predetermined number of uniqueness violation entries based on a uniqueness ratio-functions applied to a column of values from the input table that, when removed from the input table, corresponds to the modified input table predicted to minimize a ratio between the first probability and the second probability.
15. The system of claim 10, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing device to:
apply a likelihood ratio minimization model over a plurality of subsets of the input table trained to identify a predetermined number of functional dependency (FD) violation entries based on an FD-compliance ratio function applied to multiple columns from the input table that, when removed from the input table, corresponds to the modified input table predicted to minimize a ratio between the first probability and the second probability.
</claims>
</document>
