<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/56,G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G06N5/02,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SOPHOS
HARANG, RICHARD
DUCAU, FELIPE
RUDD, ETHAN
WILD, CODY
BERLIN, KONSTANTIN
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARANG, RICHARD
DUCAU, FELIPE
RUDD, ETHAN
WILD, CODY
BERLIN, KONSTANTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69723989
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CONDUCTING A SECURITY RECOGNITION TASK
</title>

<abstract>
A system for conducting a security recognition task, the system comprising a memory configured to store a model and training data including auxiliary information that will not be available as input to the model when the model is used as a security recognition task model for the security recognition task. The system further comprising one or more processors communicably linked to the memory and comprising a training unit and a prediction unit. The training unit is configured to receive the training data and the model from the memory and subsequently provide the training data to the model, and train the model, as the security recognition task model, using the training data to predict the auxiliary information as well as to perform the security recognition task, thereby improving performance of the security recognition task. The prediction unit is configured to use the security recognition task model output to perform the security recognition task while ignoring the auxiliary attributes in the model output.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A system for conducting a security recognition task, the system comprising:
a memory configured to store a model and training data including auxiliary information that will not be available as input to the model when the model is used as a security recognition task model for the security recognition task;
one or more processors communicably linked to the memory and comprising a training unit and a prediction unit;
wherein the training unit is configured to:
receive the training data and the model from the memory and subsequently provide the training data to the model; and
train the model, as the security recognition task model, using the training data to predict the auxiliary information as well as to perform the security recognition task, thereby improving performance of the security recognition task; wherein the prediction unit is configured to:
use the security recognition task model output to perform the security recognition task while ignoring the auxiliary attributes in the model output.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the training unit is further configured to jointly optimize a security recognition task loss function and an auxiliary information loss function.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the training unit is further configured to assign a first weight to the security recognition task loss function and a second weight to the auxiliary information loss function.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the first weight is greater than the second weight.
5. The system of claim 2 or claim 3 wherein the model is a multi-target neural network.
6. The system of claim 5 wherein the multi-target neural network comprises:
a base network configured to receive a sample associated with a portable executable file and produce an intermediate output;
a security recognition task classification network configured to receive the intermediate output and produce the security recognition task prediction; and an auxiliary information classification network configured to receive the intermediate output and produce the auxiliary information prediction.
7. The system of claim 6 wherein the training unit is further configured to update a configuration associated with the base network and a configuration associated with the security recognition task classification network when optimizing the security recognition task loss function.
8. The system of claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the training unit is further configured to update a configuration associated with the base network and a configuration associated with the auxiliary information classification network when optimizing the auxiliary information loss function.
9. The system of any of claims 6 to 8 wherein the base network comprises a plurality of dense blocks.
10. The system of claim 9 wherein each dense block of the plurality of dense blocks comprises a dropout layer, a dense layer, a batch normalisation layer, and an activation function.
11. The system of any of claims 5 to 10 wherein the security recognition task classification network comprises at least one dense layer and an activation function.
12. The system of any of claims 5 to 11 wherein the auxiliary information classification network comprises at least one dense layer and an activation function.
13. The system of any preceding claim wherein the training data comprises a plurality of training samples each of which being associated with a single portable executable file.
14. The system of claim 13 wherein a training sample of the plurality of training samples comprises one or more features, a security recognition task label, and auxiliary information.
15. The system of claim 14 wherein the one or more features of the training sample correspond to one or more features extracted from the single portable executable file.
16. The system of claim 14 or claim 15 wherein the auxiliary information comprises one of a per-authority label or a textual label.
17. The system of any preceding claim wherein the security recognition task comprises recognizing portable executable files as malware.
18. A method for conducting a security recognition task, comprising:
providing training data to a model including auxiliary information that will not be available as input to the model when the model is used as a security recognition task model for a security recognition task;
training the model, as the security recognition task model, using the training data to predict the auxiliary information as well as to perform the security recognition task, thereby improving performance of the security recognition task; and
using the security recognition task model output to perform the security recognition task while ignoring the auxiliary attributes in the model output.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein training the model using the training data comprises the step of:
jointly optimizing a security recognition task loss function and an auxiliary information loss function.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein the model comprises a multi-target neural network comprising a base network, a security recognition task classification network, and an auxiliary information classification network.
21. The method of claim 20 wherein training the model using the training data further comprises the step of:
updating a configuration of the base network and a plurality of weights of the security recognition task classification network based on the optimizing of the security recognition task loss function.
22. The method of claim 20 or claim 21 wherein training the model using the training data further comprises the step of:
updating a configuration of the base network and a plurality of weights of the auxiliary information classification network based on the optimizing of the auxiliary information loss function.
23. The method of any preceding claim wherein the security recognition task comprises recognizing portable executable files as malware.
24. A computer readable medium comprising one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions which when executed by one or more processors of an electronic device cause the electronic device to perform the methods of any one of claims 18 to 23.
25. The computer readable medium of claim 24 wherein the computer readable medium is a non-transitory storage medium.
</claims>
</document>
