<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B26B19/14,B26B19/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZEITOUNY, MOUNIR
ZNAMENSKIY, DMITRY
NIKITCHENKO, Roman
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65991610
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A COMPUTER-IMPLEMENTED METHOD FOR PROVIDING VISUAL FEEDBACK TO A USER OF A ROTARY SHAVER, AND AN APPARATUS AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT IMPLEMENTING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
According to an aspect, there is provided a computer-implemented method for providing visual feedback to a user of a rotary shaver. The method comprises (i) receiving movement measurements representing movement of the rotary shaver during a shaving operation; (ii) processing the received movement measurements to determine a representation of a trajectory of movement of the rotary shaver during the shaving operation; (iii) processing the determined representation to project the representation onto a two-dimensional plane; (iv) generating a graphical user interface, GUI, the GUI including the projected representation and a graphical template comprising an annular target zone for a correct circular motion of the rotary shaver during the shaving operation; and (v) displaying the generated GUI using a display unit.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computerimplemented method for providing visual feedback to a user of a rotary shaver, the method comprising:
(i) receiving movement measurements representing movement of the rotary shaver during a shaving operation;
(ii) processing the received movement measurements to determine a representation of a trajectory of movement of the rotary shaver during the shaving operation;
(iii) processing the determined representation to project the representation onto a two-dimensional plane;
(iv) generating a graphical user interface, GUI, the GUI including the projected representation and a graphical template comprising an annular target zone for a correct circular motion of the rotary shaver during the shaving operation; and
(v) displaying the generated GUI using a display unit.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1, the method further comprising repeating steps (ii)-(iv) for further received movement measurements to generate an updated GUI, and displaying the generated updated GUI using the display unit.
3. A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, the method further comprises the step of:
comparing the projected representation to one or more boundaries represented by the annular target zone; and
wherein the step of generating the GUI further comprises generating the GUI to further include a visual element based on a result of the comparison.
4. A method as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the step of generating the GUI comprises:
determining an alignment of the projected representation with the graphical template; and
generating the GUI with the projected representation overlaid on the graphical template according to the determined alignment.
5. A method as claimed in any of claims 1-4, wherein the step of processing the received movement measurements to determine a representation of the trajectory of movement comprises filtering to remove high frequency components in the movement measurements.
6. A method as claimed in any of claims 1-5, wherein the step of processing the determined representation to project the representation onto a two-dimensional plane comprises:
for a plurality of movement measurement samples in the received movement measurements, computing an orientation of an instant tangent plane based on a previous plurality of measurement samples;
projecting the movement measurement samples on to the instant tangent plane; aligning the projected movement measurement samples with previouslyprojected movement measurement samples; and
applying de-trending to the aligned projected movement measurement samples.
7. A method as claimed in any of claims 1-6, wherein the method further comprises the step of:
processing the projected representation to determine values for one or more characteristics of the movement of the rotary shaver; and
wherein the step of generating the GUI further comprises generating the GUI to further include the determined value or determined values.
8. A computer program product comprising a computer readable medium having computer readable code embodied therein, the computer readable code being configured such that, on execution by a suitable computer or processor, the computer or processor is caused to perform the method of any of claims 1-7.
9. An apparatus for providing visual feedback to a user of a rotary shaver, the apparatus comprising:
a display unit; and
a processing unit that is configured to:
receive movement measurements representing movement of the rotary shaver during a shaving operation;
process the received movement measurements to determine a representation of a trajectory of movement of the rotary shaver during the shaving operation;
process the determined representation to project the representation onto a twodimensional plane;
generate a graphical user interface, GUI, the GUI including the projected representation and a graphical template comprising an annular target zone for a correct circular motion of the rotary shaver during the shaving operation; and
display the generated GUI using the display unit.
10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9, the processing unit is further configured to:
compare the projected representation to one or more boundaries represented by the annular target zone; and
wherein the processing unit is configured to generate the GUI to further include a visual element based on a result of the comparison.
11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 or 10, wherein the processing unit is configured to generate the GUI by:
determining an alignment of the projected representation with the graphical template; and
generating the GUI with the projected representation overlaid on the graphical template according to the determined alignment.
12. An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 9-11, wherein the processing unit is configured to process the received movement measurements to determine a representation of the trajectory of movement by filtering to remove high frequency components in the movement measurements.
13. An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 9-12, wherein the processing unit is configured to process the determined representation to project the representation onto a twodimensional plane by:
for a plurality of movement measurement samples in the received movement measurements, computing an orientation of an instant tangent plane based on a previous plurality of measurement samples;
projecting the movement measurement samples on to the instant tangent plane; aligning the projected movement measurement samples with previouslyprojected movement measurement samples; and
applying de-trending to the aligned projected movement measurement samples.
14. An apparatus as claimed in any of claims 9-13, wherein the processing unit is further configured to:
process the projected representation to determine values for one or more characteristics of the movement of the rotary shaver; and
wherein the processing unit is configured to generate the GUI to further include the determined value or determined values. 15. A system, comprising:
a rotary shaver; and
an apparatus for providing visual feedback to a user of the rotary shaver as claimed in any of claims 9-14.
</claims>
</document>
