<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUALCOMM
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANSARI, AMIN
FONTIJNE, DANIEL HENDRICUS FRANCISCUS
MAJOR, BENCE
SUKHAVASI, RAVI TEJA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69005947
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROCESSING SENSOR INFORMATION FOR OBJECT DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods of processing vehicle sensor information for object detection may include capturing generating a feature map based on captured sensor information, associating with each pixel of the feature map a prior box having a set of two or more width priors and a set of two or more height priors, determining a confidence value of each height prior and each width prior, outputting an indication of a detected object based on a highest confidence height prior and a highest confidence width prior, and performing a vehicle operation based on the output indication of a detected object. Embodiments may include determining for each pixel of the feature map one or more prior boxes having a center value, a size value, and a set of orientation priors, determining a confidence value for each orientation prior, and outputting an indication of the orientation of a detected object based on the highest confidence orientation.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method of processing sensor information for object detection, comprising:
capturing, by a sensor, sensor information regarding an environment around the sensor;
generating, by a processor, a feature map based on the sensor information; associating, by the processor, with each pixel of the feature map a prior box comprising a set of two or more width priors and a set of two or more height priors; determining, by the processor, a confidence value of each height prior and each width prior;
outputting, by the processor, an indication of a detected object based on a highest confidence height prior from among the set of height priors and a highest confidence width prior from among the set of width priors; and
taking an action based on the output indication of a detected object.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein taking an action based on the output indication of a detected object comprises:
performing, by the processor, a vehicle operation based on the output indication of a detected object.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
selecting the highest confidence height prior from the set of two or more height priors; and
selecting the highest confidence width prior from the set of two or more width priors.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
determining a height refinement value for each of the set of height priors; and determining a width refinement value for each of the set of width priors.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising:
refining the highest confidence height prior with the height refinement value; and
refining the highest confidence width prior with the width refinement value.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein outputting an indication of a detected object based on a highest confidence height prior from among the set of height priors and a highest confidence width prior from among the set of width priors comprises:
outputting the indication of a detected object comprising the refined highest confidence height prior and the refined highest confidence width prior.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the prior box associated with each pixel further comprises a center value.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising:
determining for each prior box a center value refinement; and
refining the center value with the determined center value refinement.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
determining for each prior box one or more object classifications; and determining for each of the one or more object classifications a confidence value.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the output indication of a detected object comprises one or more of a height confidence value and a width confidence value.
11. A vehicle control unit, comprising: a processor configured with processor-executable instructions to perform operations comprising:
receiving sensor inform tion from a sensor;
generating a feature map based on the sensor information; associating with each pixel of the feature map a prior box comprising a set of two or more width priors and a set of two or more height priors;
determining a confidence value of each height prior and each width prior;
outputting an indication of a detected object based on a highest confidence height prior from among the set of height priors and a highest confidence width prior from among the set of width priors; and
taking an action based on the output indication of a detected object.
12. The vehicle control unit of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions to perform operations such that taking an action based on the output indication of a detected object comprises:
performing a vehicle operation based on the output indication of a detected object.
13. The vehicle control unit system of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions to perform operations further comprising: selecting the highest confidence height prior from the set of two or more height priors; and
selecting the highest confidence width prior from the set of two or more width priors.
14. The vehicle control unit of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions to perform operations further comprising:
determining a height refinement value for each of the set of height priors; and determining a width refinement value for each of the set of width priors.
15. The vehicle control unit of claim 14, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions to perform operations further comprising:
refining the highest confidence height prior with the height refinement value; and
refining the highest confidence width prior with the width refinement value.
16. The vehicle control unit of claim 15, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions to perform operations such that outputting an indication of a detected object based on a highest confidence height prior from among the set of height priors and a highest confidence width prior from among the set of width priors comprises:
outputting the indication of a detected object comprising the refined highest confidence height prior and the refined highest confidence width prior.
17. The vehicle control unit of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions to perform operations such that each associated prior box further comprises a center value.
18. The vehicle control unit of claim 17, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions to perform operations further comprising:
determining for each prior box a center value refinement; and
refining the center value with the determined center value refinement.
19. The vehicle control unit of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions to perform operations further comprising:
determining for each prior box one or more object classifications; and determining for each of the one or more object classifications a confidence value.
20. The vehicle control unit of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions to perform operations such that the output indication of a detected object comprises one or more of a height confidence value and a width confidence value.
21. A method of processing vehicle sensor information for object detection, comprising:
capturing, by a sensor, sensor information regarding an environment around the sensor;
generating, by a processor, a feature map based on the sensor information; associating, by the processor, with each pixel of the feature map, one or more prior boxes comprising a center value, a size value, and a set of orientation priors; determining, by the processor, a confidence value for each orientation prior; outputting, by the processor, an indication of a detected object based on the highest confidence orientation; and
performing, by the processor, a vehicle operation based on the output indication of a detected object.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising:
selecting for each prior box a highest confidence orientation prior from among the set of orientation priors.
23. The method of claim 21, further comprising:
determining an orientation refinement for each of the set of orientation priors.
24. The method of claim 23, further comprising: refining an orientation value for each prior box based on the determined orientation refinement.
25. The method of claim 24, further comprising:
rotating each prior box based on the refined orientation value.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein the output indication of a detected object comprises an orientation confidence value.
27. A vehicle control unit, comprising:
a processor configured with processor-executable instructions to perform operations comprising:
receiving sensor information regarding an environment around a sensor; generating, by a processor, a feature map based on the sensor
information;
associating, by the processor, with each pixel of the feature map, one or more prior boxes comprising a center value, a size value, and a set of orientation priors;
determining, by the processor, a confidence value for each orientation prior;
outputting, by the processor, an indication of a detected object based on the highest confidence orientation; and
performing, by the processor, a vehicle operation based on the output indication of a detected object.
28. The vehicle control unit of claim 27, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions to perform operations further comprising:
selecting for each prior box a highest confidence orientation prior from among the set of orientation priors.
29. The vehicle control unit of claim 27, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions to perform operations further comprising:
determining an orientation refinement for each of the set of orientation priors; and
refining an orientation value for each prior box based on the determined orientation refinement.
30. The vehicle control unit of claim 29, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions to perform operations further comprising:
rotating each prior box based on the refined orientation value.
</claims>
</document>
