<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B8/00,A61B8/08,A61B8/12,G01S15/89,G01S7/52
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF IRELAND, GALWAY
THE COLLEGE OF THE HOLY & UNDIVIDED TRINITY OF QUEEN ELIZABETH
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOURKE, ANDREW
HENNERSPERGER, CHRISTOPH
LAHART, FIONN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68654811
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ULTRASOUND BASED THREE-DIMENSIONAL LESION VERIFICATION WITHIN A VASCULATURE
</title>

<abstract>
A catheter-based ultrasound imaging system configured to provide a full circumferential 360-degree view around an intra-vascular/ intra-cardiac imaging-catheter-head by generating a three-dimensional view of the tissue surrounding the imaging-head over time. The ultrasound imaging system can also provide tissue-state mapping capability. The evaluation of the vasculature and tissue characteristics include path and depth of lesions during cardiac-interventions such as ablation. The ultrasound imaging system comprises a catheter with a static or rotating sensor array tip supporting continuous circumferential rotation around its axis, connected to an ultrasound module and respective processing machinery allowing ultrafast imaging and a rotary motor that translates radial movements around a longitudinal catheter axis through a rotary torque transmitting part to rotate the sensor array-tip. This allows the capture and reconstruction of information of the vasculature including tissue structure around the catheter tip for generation of the three-dimensional view over time.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for ultrasound imaging using an imaging system including
(i) a catheter comprising a proximal end and a distal end, the distal end of the catheter comprising a catheter tip, the catheter tip comprising an ultrasound transducer array enclosed within an acoustic housing and extending along a longitudinal axis of the catheter, wherein the distal end of the catheter is configured to be inserted into and guided to a site of a procedure in a medium, and wherein the ultrasound transducer array is rotatable within the acoustic housing while transmitting ultrasound pulses and receiving ultrasound echoes from the surrounding medium, and
(ii) a controller communicatively coupled with the catheter, the method comprising: circumferentially rotating the catheter including the array of acoustic transducers about a longitudinal axis of the catheter;
while rotating the catheter:
transmitting, by the array of acoustic transducers at a set of different transmission angular positions, a plurality of incident acoustic wave signals representative of one or more plane waves in a volume of observation of the medium,
receiving, by the array of acoustic transducers at a set of different reception angular positions, a plurality of reflected signals, wherein each of the plurality of reflected signals corresponds to one of the plurality of incident acoustic wave signals reflected by the medium, wherein at least one of the plurality of reflected signals is received by the array of acoustic transducers at a reception angular position that is different than the transmission angular position of the corresponding transmitted incident acoustic wave signal; and
generating an image of the medium as a function of at least:
the plurality of reflected signals, and for at least one of the respective reflected signals: (a) the transmission angular position of each of the acoustic transducers for the incident acoustic wave signal that corresponds to the respective reflected signal and
(b) the reception angular position of each of the acoustic transducers for the respective reflected signal, wherein the reception angular position of the acoustic transducers for the respective reflected signal is different than the transmission angular position of the acoustic transducers for the respective reflected signal.
2. The method for ultrasound imaging of claim 1, wherein generating an image of the medium as a function of at least the plurality of reflected signals includes:
for each of the respective reflected signals:
(c) an angle of the plane wave; and
(d) a rotational angle of the catheter;
(e) the rotational axis of the catheter; and
(f) an offset of the transducer elements relative to an apex.
3. The method for ultrasound imaging of claim 1, wherein generating an image of the medium as a function of at least the plurality of reflected signals includes:
(a) an offset of the transducer array elements relative to the imaging apex in 2D; and
(b) an angle of the plane wave;
and the method further comprising:
reconstructing a rotation corrected compounded image from one or more individual 2D sub-images as a function of:
(c) a rotational angle of the catheter for each sub-image.
4. The method for ultrasound imaging of claim 1, wherein a distance between the reception angular position for the respective reflected signal and the transmission angular position of the acoustic transducers for the respective reflected signal is a function of:
(a) a rotational speed of the catheter;
(b) a target imaging focal depth; (c) a speed of sound in the medium
(d) a transmit pulsing rate of the imaging console; and
(e) a target 3D imaging rate.
5. The method for ultrasound imaging of claim 4, wherein the number of reflected signals is determined as a function of:
(c) a beam shape profile of the transmission wave signal.
6. The method for ultrasound imaging of claim 4, wherein the generated image represents an imaging depth as a function of:
(a) a transmit pulsing rate of the imaging console
(b) a rotational speed of the catheter
(c) a speed of sound in the target medium
(d) a number of plane wave transmits used for imaging.
7. The method for ultrasound imaging of claim 5, wherein the catheter is rotated at a speed as a function of:
(a) a target volumetric imaging rate required to image the area of observation
(b) a target volumetric spatial resolution within the area of observation
(c) an imaging depth
(d) a transmit pulsing rate of the imaging console
8. The method for ultrasound imaging of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of reflected signals is received by the array of acoustic transducers at a reception angular position that is different than the transmission angular position of the corresponding transmitted incident acoustic wave signal.
9. The method for ultrasound imaging of any of claims 2-3, wherein generating an image of the medium as a function of at least the plurality of reflected signals includes:
a beam width profile of the plane wave.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein a catheter rotation speed of the catheter is in the range of 110 revolutions per minute to 4900 revolutions per minute.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein a catheter rotation speed of the catheter is in the range of 600 revolutions per minute to 2400 revolutions per minute.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein a catheter rotation speed of the catheter is in the range of 900 revolutions per minute to 1500 revolutions per minute.
13. A system for ultrasound imaging, the system comprising
(i) a catheter comprising a proximal end and a distal end, the distal end of the catheter comprising a catheter tip, the catheter tip comprising an ultrasound transducer array enclosed within an acoustic housing and extending along a longitudinal axis of the catheter, wherein the distal end of the catheter is configured to be inserted into and guided to a site of a procedure in a medium, and wherein the ultrasound transducer array is rotatable within the acoustic housing while transmitting ultrasound pulses and receiving ultrasound echoes from the surrounding medium, and
(ii) a controller communicatively coupled with the catheter, the controller in conjunction with the catheter, configured to perform the steps of any of claims 1-12.
14. A method for ultrasound imaging using an imaging system including
(i) a catheter comprising a proximal end and a distal end, the distal end of the catheter comprising a catheter tip, the catheter tip comprising an ultrasound transducer array enclosed within an acoustic housing and extending along a longitudinal axis of the catheter, wherein the distal end of the catheter is configured to be inserted into and guided to a site of a procedure in a medium, and wherein the ultrasound transducer array is rotatable within the acoustic housing while transmitting ultrasound pulses and receiving ultrasound echoes from the surrounding medium, and
(ii) a controller communicatively coupled with the catheter, the method comprising: before an ablation procedure, circumferentially rotating the catheter including the array of acoustic transducers about a longitudinal axis of the catheter; while circumferentially rotating the catheter:
transmitting, by an array of acoustic transducers, a plurality of pre-ablation incident acoustic wave signals representative of angled plane waves in an area of observation of the medium,
receiving, by an array of acoustic transducers, a plurality of pre-ablation reflected signals, wherein each of the plurality of pre-ablation reflected signals corresponds to one of the plurality of pre-ablation incident acoustic wave signals reflected by the medium, wherein the plurality of pre-ablation reflected signals includes raw radio-frequency (i.e., directly after analog to digital conversion (minimal processing)) data represented in time domain; and
after the ablation procedure, circumferentially rotating the catheter including the array of acoustic transducers about a longitudinal axis of the catheter;
while circumferentially rotating the catheter:
transmitting, by an array of acoustic transducers, a plurality of post-ablation incident acoustic wave signals representative of angled plane waves in an area of observation of the medium,
receiving, by an array of acoustic transducers, a plurality of post-ablation reflected signals, wherein each of the plurality of post-ablation reflected signals corresponds to one of the plurality of post-ablation incident acoustic wave signals reflected by the medium, wherein the plurality of post-ablation reflected signals includes raw radio-frequency data represented in a time domain; and
generating an image of the medium, including:
for each pixel of the image:
identifying a portion of the pre-ablation reflected signals that corresponds to the respective pixel and transforming the portion of the pre-ablation reflected signal from a time domain representation to a frequency domain representation;
identifying a portion of the post-ablation reflected signals that corresponds to the respective pixel and transforming the portion of the post-ablation reflected signal from a time domain representation to a frequency domain representation;
generating a lesion-spectral-change value by comparing the portion of the pre-ablation reflected signals in the frequency domain to the portion of the post-ablation reflected signals in the frequency domain.
15. The method for ultrasound imaging of claim 14, wherein comparing the portion of the pre-ablation reflected signals in the frequency domain to the portion of the post-ablation reflected signals in the frequency domain includes:
calculating a difference between the portion of the pre-ablation reflected signals in the frequency domain to the portion of the post-ablation reflected signals in the frequency domain.
16. The method for ultrasound imaging of claim 14, wherein comparing the portion of the pre-ablation reflected signals in the frequency domain to the portion of the post-ablation reflected signals in the frequency domain includes:
transforming the pre ablation signals and the post ablation reflected signals into the frequency domain by power spectrum estimations using a Fast Fourier Transform.
17 The method for ultrasound imaging of any of claims 14-16, wherein the generation of an image of lesion-spectral-change values comprises of a plurality of individual images of lesionspectral-change values reconstructed into a rotation correct compounded image of lesion-spectral change values as a function of
(a) a rotational angle of the catheter for each sub-image; and
(b) a plane wave angle for each sub-image; and
(c) a distance of the transducer elements to the catheter rotation axis.
18. The method for ultrasound imaging of claim 14, wherein comparing the portion of the pre-ablation reflected signals in the frequency domain to the portion of the post-ablation reflected signals in the frequency domain includes:
19. The method for ultrasound imaging of claim 14, further comprising: correlating a lesion-spectral-change mapping to a histopathological acquisition of the medium, including:
creating a lesion-spectral change mapping
preservation of the medium using agents used in histopathology;
staining the target medium with agents displaying the tissue microstructure of lesions in the medium and digitalizing sectional images of the medium;
reconstructing a 3D histopathological volume from a plurality of sectional histopathology images; and
registering the 3D histopathological volume to the lesion-spectral-change mapping data; and
calibrating the lesion-spectral-change map to the 2D and 3D images of histopathological microstructure.
20. The method for ultrasound imaging of claim 14, further comprising:
displaying a lesion-spectral-change mapping on a display communicatively coupled to the controller.
21. The method for ultrasound imaging of claim 14, further comprising:
determining whether the lesion-spectral-change value meeting lesion change criteria; in accordance with determining that the lesion-spectral-change value meets lesion change criteria, generating a lesion performance success message; and
in accordance with determining that the lesion-spectral-change value does not meet lesion change criteria, forego generating a lesion performance success message.
22. The method of claim 14, wherein a catheter rotation speed of the catheter is in the range of 110 revolutions per minute to 4900 revolutions per minute.
23. The method of claim 14, wherein a catheter rotation speed of the catheter is in the range of 600 revolutions per minute to 2400 revolutions per minute.
24. The method of claim 14, wherein a catheter rotation speed of the catheter is in the range of 900 revolutions per minute to 1500 revolutions per minute.
25. A system for ultrasound imaging, the system comprising
(i) a catheter comprising a proximal end and a distal end, the distal end of the catheter comprising a catheter tip, the catheter tip comprising an ultrasound transducer array enclosed within an acoustic housing and extending along a longitudinal axis of the catheter, wherein the distal end of the catheter is configured to be inserted into and guided to a site of a procedure in a medium, and wherein the ultrasound transducer array is rotatable within the acoustic housing while transmitting ultrasound pulses and receiving ultrasound echoes from the surrounding medium, and
(ii) a controller communicatively coupled with the catheter, the controller in conjunction with the catheter, configured to perform the steps of any of claims 14-25.
26. An ultrasound imaging system comprising:
a catheter comprising:
a catheter tip, the catheter tip having an ultrasound transducer array comprising ultrasound transducers in the form of ultrasound transmitters and sensors within an acoustic housing;
a catheter body configured for electrical, mechanical and rotational connection of the ultrasound transducers; and
a catheter shaft configured to transfer both rotational and electrical signals to the ultrasound transducer array; and
a console comprising:
a rotary motor connected via the catheter shaft to the ultrasound transducer array to enable a conti nuous rotati on or a positioning of the ultrasound transducer array within the acoustic housing such that the ultrasound transducer array captures planewave or diverging wave acquisition data over a circumferential 360 degree angle around the catheter tip;
an ultrasound module electrically connected through the catheter shaft and the catheter body to the ultrasound transducer array; and an imaging workstation comprising a server, the imaging workstation coupled to the ultrasound module, the imaging workstation configured to provide a processing power and storage capability to the ultrasound module to process captured anatomical imaging data and functional imaging for tissue parameter extraction data from the ultrasound transducer array to generate two, three or four dimensional images from the data and enable display of the two, three or four dimensional images with interactive display manipulation.
27. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 26, wherein the ultrasound transmitters and sensors comprise a plurality of piezo-electric transducers configured to transmit ultrasound pulses and receive an echo of the ultrasound pulses.
28. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 26, wherein the catheter tip further comprises control elements configured to enable at least one of steering, tracking and rotating the plurality of ultrasound transducer array of the catheter tip.
29. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 26, wherein the catheter tip further comprises control elements configured to enable rotating an of ultrasound array around the longitudinal axis of the catheter tip with rotation speeds of more than 600 revolutions per minute.
30. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 26, wherein the catheter body comprises:
an outer sheath;
a connector configured to couple to the ultrasonic transducer array;
a first concentric catheter in the outer sheath, wherein the first concentric catheter is connected to the ultrasound transducer array and to the connector such that the first concentric catheter is rotatable from outside the catheter tip and is configured to rotate the ultrasound transducer array within the acoustic housing in the catheter tip; and
a second concentric catheter comprising internal electrical wiring to electrically connect the ultrasound transducer array to the connector and to the acoustic housing.
31. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 26, wherein the ultrasound module is configured to determine and control rotation of the ultrasound transducer array and firing of ultrasound pulse streams by the ultrasound transmitters in the ultrasound transducer array.
32. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 26, wherein the ultrasound module in combination with the imaging workstation is configured to schedule a firing sequence of ultrasound pulses by the ultrasound transmitters in the ultrasound transducer array and to process a collected reflected ultrasound data by the sensors in the ultrasound transducer array to produce the two, three or four dimensional images.
33. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 26, wherein the ultrasound module in combination with the imaging work station generates slice-based images from data collected by the sensors in the ultrasound transducer array.
34. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 26, wherein the ultrasound module in combination with the imaging work station is configured to generate volume-based images from the data collected by the sensors in the ultrasound transducer array.
35. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 26, wherein the ultrasound sensor array tip is static and the angular rotation is accomplished by software.
36. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 26, wherein ultrafast imaging beamforming is used to capture anatomical imaging data.
37. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 26, wherein tissue functional imaging is used to capture the elastic imaging for tissue parameter extraction data.
38. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 26, wherein the imaging workstation is further configured to extract tissue characterization and visual confirmation to determine completeness of ablation procedures over the surface of target tissue and depth of tissue.
39. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 26, wherein the imaging workstation is further configured to display at least one of anatomical images, functional images, and combined images from the captured anatomical imaging data and elastic imaging for tissue parameter extraction data.
40. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 26, wherein the imaging workstation is further configured to perform multi-mode imaging.
41. The ultrasound imaging system of claim 26, wherein the displayed images enable monitoring and verification of accuracy and completeness of ablation procedures while ultrasound imaging and ablation procedures are being performed.
42. A method to re-construct and visualize a slice-based image comprising:
retrieving image data collected and stored in a database; consolidating channel data for single image sequence from brightness mode and functional tissue imaging based on the retrieved image data;
reconstructing at least one of a two, a three or a four-dimensional image using the consolidated channel data; and
outputting the at least one of the two, the three or the four-dimensional image to a display.
43. A method to re-construct and visualize a volume-based image comprising:
retrieving image data collected and stored in a database;
consolidating channel data for single firing pattern from anatomical and functional tissue imaging based on the retrieved image data;
reconstructing at least one of a threeor four-dimensional image using the consolidated channel data using an ultrasound imaging system; and outputting the at least one of the threeor four-dimensional image to a display.
44. The method of claim 41, wherein the ultrasound imaging system comprises:
a catheter comprising:
a catheter tip, the catheter tip having an ultrasound transducer array comprising ultrasound transducers in the form of ultrasound transmitters and sensors within an acoustic housing;
a catheter body configured for electrical, mechanical and rotational connection of the ultrasound transducers; and
a catheter shaft configured to transfer both rotational and electrical signals to the ultrasound transducer array; and
a console comprising:
a rotary motor connected via the catheter shaft to the ultrasound transducer array to enable a rotation or a positioning of the ultrasound transducer array within the acoustic housing such that the ultrasound transducer array captures data over a circumferential 360 degree angle around the catheter tip;
an ultrasound module electrically connected through the catheter shaft and the catheter body to the ultrasound transducer array; and an imaging workstation comprising a server, the imaging
workstation coupled to the ultrasound module, the imaging workstation configured to reconstruct the at least one of the threeor four-dimensional image using the consolidated channel data and output the at least one of the threeor four-dimensional image to a display.
45. An imaging system for real time control and verification of procedures in the vasculature, the imaging system comprising:
a catheter comprising a proximal end and a distal end, the distal end of the catheter comprising a catheter tip, the catheter tip comprising an ultrasound transducer array enclosed within an acoustic housing, wherein the distal end of the catheter is configured to be inserted into and guided to a site of a procedure in a vasculature, and wherein the ultrasound transducer array is rotatable within the acoustic housing while transmitting ultrasound pulses and receiving ultrasound echoes from the surrounding vasculature; and
a console coupled to the catheter, the catheter comprising an embedded ultrasound module and an imaging workstation with a processor and storage capability, wherein the console is enabled for planning ultrasound imaging data capture, providing synchronized rotational and pulsing control to the ultrasound transducer array, and for receiving, consolidating and processing data captured from the received ultrasound echoes by the ultrasound transducer array to generate tissue image data and tissue characterization data for the vasculature surrounding the catheter tip at the site of the procedure, and wherein the imaging workstation is further configured to display at least a two, a three or a four dimensional image of at least one of the received and processed tissue image data and tissue characterization data of the vasculature at the site of the procedure on a display for interactive and real-time control and verification of the procedure in the vasculature.
46. The imaging system of claim 45, wherein the imaging system is attached to a procedural catheter or a procedural instrument for the real-time control and in-situ verification of the procedure as the procedures are being executed within the vasculature.
48. A method for ultrasound imaging of a medium including a shear wave using an imaging system including
(i) a catheter comprising a proximal end and a distal end, the distal end of the catheter comprising a catheter tip, the catheter tip comprising an ultrasound transducer array enclosed within an acoustic housing and extending along a longitudinal axis of the catheter, wherein the distal end of the catheter is configured to be inserted into and guided to a site of a procedure in a medium, and wherein the ultrasound transducer array is rotatable within the acoustic housing while transmitting ultrasound pulses and receiving ultrasound echoes from the surrounding medium, and
(ii) a controller communicatively coupled with the catheter, the method comprising: determining a shear wave propagation speed of the shear wave;
circumferentially rotating the catheter including the array of acoustic transducers about a longitudinal axis of the catheter at a catheter rotation speed, wherein the catheter rotation speed is based on the shear wave propagation speed;
while circumferentially rotating the catheter:
transmitting, by the array of acoustic transducers, a plurality of incident acoustic wave signals representative of one or more plane waves in an volume of observation of the medium,
receiving, by the array of acoustic transducers, a plurality of reflected signals, wherein each of the plurality of reflected signals corresponds to one of the plurality of incident acoustic wave signals reflected by the medium; and
generating one or more images of the medium including one or more observations of the shear wave based on the plurality of reflected signals.
49. The method of claim 48, wherein the catheter rotation speed is at least the shear wave propagation speed.
50. The method of claim 48, wherein the catheter rotation speed is static relative to the shear wave propagation speed.
51. The method of claim 48, wherein a difference between the catheter rotation speed and the shear wave propagation speed is less than 1 revolutions per minute.
52. The method of claim 48, wherein the catheter rotation speed is in the range of 110 revolutions per minute to 4900 revolutions per minute.
53. The method of claim 48, wherein the catheter rotation speed is in the range of 600 revolutions per minute to 2400 revolutions per minute.
54. The method of claim 48, wherein the catheter rotation speed is in the range of 900 revolutions per minute to 1500 revolutions per minute.
55. The method of claim 48, wherein transmitting, by the array of acoustic transducers, a plurality of incident acoustic wave signals includes:
transmitting, by the array of acoustic transducers at a set of different transmission angular positions, the plurality of incident acoustic wave signals representative of one or more plane waves in a volume of observation of the medium,
wherein receiving, by the array of acoustic transducers, a plurality of reflected signals includes:
receiving, by the array of acoustic transducers at a set of different reception angular positions, the plurality of reflected signals, wherein each of the plurality of reflected signals corresponds to one of the plurality of incident acoustic wave signals reflected by the medium, wherein at least one of the plurality of reflected signals is received by the array of acoustic transducers at a reception angular position that is different than the transmission angular position of the corresponding transmitted incident acoustic wave signal; and
wherein generating the image of the medium includes:
generating the image as a function of:
for at least one of the plurality of reflected signals:
(a) the transmission angular position of each of the acoustic transducers for the incident acoustic wave signal that corresponds to the respective reflected signal and (b) the reception angular position of each of the acoustic transducers for the respective reflected signal, wherein the reception angular position of the acoustic transducers for the respective reflected signal is different than the transmission angular position of the acoustic transducers for the respective reflected signal.
56. The method of claim 48, wherein the catheter rotation speed is a function of:
(a) the shear wave propagation speed,
(b) a distance between the shear wave and the array of acoustic transducers, and
(c) an angle of the catheter between subsequent transmissions by the array of acoustic transducers.
57. A system for ultrasound imaging of a medium including a shear wave, the system comprising:
(i) a catheter comprising a proximal end and a distal end, the distal end of the catheter comprising a catheter tip, the catheter tip comprising an ultrasound transducer array enclosed within an acoustic housing and extending along a longitudinal axis of the catheter, wherein the distal end of the catheter is configured to be inserted into and guided to a site of a procedure in a medium, and wherein the ultrasound transducer array is rotatable within the acoustic housing while transmitting ultrasound pulses and receiving ultrasound echoes from the surrounding medium, and
(ii) a controller communicatively coupled with the catheter, the controller in conjunction with the catheter, configured to perform the steps of any of claims 48-56.
</claims>
</document>
