<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/11,A61B5/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STARKEY LABORATORIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SEITZ-PAQUETTE, Kevin Douglas
TAN, Christine Marie
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70614645
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HEARING ASSESSMENT USING A HEARING INSTRUMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A computing system includes a memory and at least one processor. The memory is configured to store motion data indicative of motion of a hearing instrument. The at least one processor is configured to determine, based on the motion data, whether a user of the hearing instrument perceived a sound. The at least one processor is further configured to output data indicating whether the user perceived the sound.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising:
a memory configured to store motion data indicative of motion of a hearing instrument; and
at least one processor configured to:
determine, based on the motion data, whether a user of the hearing instrument perceived a sound; and
responsive to determining whether the user perceived the sound, output data indicating whether the user perceived the sound.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine whether the user of the hearing instrument perceived the sound by at least being configured to:
determine, based on the motion data, a degree of rotation of a head of the user; determine whether the degree of rotation satisfies a motion threshold; and determine the user perceived the sound in response to determining the degree of rotation satisfies the motion threshold.
3. The computing system of claim 2, wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine the motion threshold based on one or more characteristics of the user.
4. The computing system of any one of claims 2-3, wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine the motion threshold based on one or more characteristics of the sound.
5. The computing system of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to:
receive sound data indicating a time at which the sound was detected by the hearing instrument,
wherein execution of the instructions causes the at least one processor to determine whether the user perceived the sound further based on the time at which the sound was detected by the hearing instrument.
6. The computing system of claim 5, wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine whether the user perceived the sound by at least being configured to:
determine, based on the motion data, a time at which the user turned a head of the user;
determine an amount of elapsed time between the time at which the user turned the head of the user and the time at which the sound was detected, and
determine the user perceived the sound in response to determining the amount of elapsed time does not satisfy a time threshold.
7. The computing system of claim 6, wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine the time threshold based on one or more characteristics of the user.
8. The computing system of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine whether the user of the hearing instrument perceived the sound based at least in part on a direction the user turned a head of the user.
9. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to:
determine, based on one or more characteristics of the sound, a direction of an audio source that generated the sound; and
determine that the user perceived the sound in response to determining that the direction the user turned the head is aligned with the direction of the audio source.
10. The computing system of claim 9, wherein the hearing instrument is a first hearing instrument, and wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine a direction of the audio source was received by at least being configured to:
receive first sound data from tire first hearing instrument;
receive second sound data from a second hearing instrument;
determine the direction of the audio source based on the first sound data and the second sound data.
11. The computing system ofany one of claims 1-10, wherein the computing system comprises the hearing instrument, wherein the hearing instrument includes the memory and the at least one processor.
12. The computing system of any one of claims 1-10, further comprising a computing device physically distinct from the hearing instrument, the computing device comprising the memory and the at least one processor.
13. A method comprising:
receiving, by at least one processor, motion data indicative of motion of a hearing instrument;
determining, by the at least one processor, based on the motion data, whether a user of the hearing instrument perceived a sound; and
responsive to determining whether the user perceived the sound, outputting, by the one or more processors, data indicating whether the user perceived the sound.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein determining whether the user of the hearing instrument perceived the sound comprises:
determining, by the at least one processor, based on the motion data, a degree of rotation of a head of the user;
determining, by the at least one processor, whether the degree of rotation satisfies a motion threshold; and
determining, by the at least one processor, that the user perceived the sound in response to determining the degree of rotation satisfies the motion threshold.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein determining the motion threshold is based on one or more characteristics of the user or one or more characteristics of the sound.
16. The method of any one of claims 13-15, further comprising:
receiving, by the at least one processor, sound data indicating a time at which the sound was detected by the hearing instrument,
wherein determining whether the user perceived the sound is further based on the time at which the sound was detected by the hearing instrument.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein determining whether the user perceived the sound comprises:
determining, by the at least one processor, based on the motion data, a time at which the user turned a head of the user;
determining, by the at least one processor, an amount of elapsed time between the time at which the user turned the head of the user and the time at which the sound was detected; and
determining, by the at least one processor, that the user perceived the sound in response to determining the amount of elapsed time does not satisfy a time threshold.
18. The method of any one of claims 13-17, wherein determining whether the user of the hearing instrument perceived the sound is based at least in part on a direction the user turned a head of the user.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising:
determining, by the at least one processor, based on one or more characteristics of the sound, a direction of an audio source that generated the sound; and
determining, by the at least one processor, that the user perceived the sound in response to determining that the direction the user turned the head is aligned with the direction of the audio source.
20. A computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing device, cause the at least one processor to:
receive motion data indicative of motion of a hearing instrument;
determine, based on the motion data, whether a user of the hearing instrument perceived a sound; and
responsive to determining whether the user perceived the sound, output data indicating whether the user perceived the sound.
21. A system comprising means for performing the method of any of claims 13-19.
</claims>
</document>
