<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARGURY, MICHAEL ZEEV
ISRAEL, MOSHE
KLIGER, BEN
LEVIN, ROY
LIVNY, YOTAM
PLISKIN, RAM HAIM
SCHERMAN, MATHIAS ABRAHAM MARC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67439367
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INCREASING SECURITY OF NETWORK RESOURCES UTILIZING VIRTUAL HONEYPOTS
</title>

<abstract>
A system for predicting vulnerability of network resources is provided. The system can calculate an initial vulnerability score for each of the network resources and use the initial vulnerability scores along with activity data of the network resources to train a vulnerability model. After training, the vulnerability model can predict the vulnerability of the network resources based on new activity data collected from the network resources. Based on the predicted vulnerability, vulnerable network resources can be identified. Further analysis can be performed by comparing the activities of the vulnerable network resources and other network resources to identify activity patterns unique to the vulnerable network resources as attack patterns. Based on the attack patterns, one or more actions can be taken to increase the security of the vulnerable network resources to avoid further vulnerability.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising:
one or more processing units; and
a computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereupon, which, when executed by the one or more processing units, cause the one or more processing units to
generate an initial vulnerability score for each of a plurality of network resources;
collect activity data from the plurality of network resources; build a vulnerability model based on the initial vulnerability scores and the activity data collected from the plurality of network resources;
obtain new activity data of the network resources;
generate predicted vulnerability scores for the plurality of network resources by applying the new activity data to the vulnerability model;
identify at least one vulnerable network resource from the plurality of network resources based on the predicted vulnerability scores; and
cause one or more actions to be performed to increase security of the at least one vulnerable network resource.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the activity data of the network resources comprise one or more of network traffic data associated with the network resource, or data describing activities occurring on the network resources.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-readable storage medium has further computer-executable instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processing units, cause the one or more processing units to access configuration data of the plurality of network resources, and wherein the initial vulnerability scores for the plurality of network resource is generated based on the configuration data of a corresponding network resource.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more actions comprise causing the vulnerable network resource to be turned off, causing the vulnerable network resource to be taken offline, sending a warning to an administrator of the at least one vulnerable network resource, or causing the vulnerable network resource to be reconfigured to increase its security.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-readable storage medium has further computer-executable instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processing units, cause the one or more processing units to:
identify activity patterns that are unique to the at least one vulnerable network resource as attack patterns; and
inform a user of the at least one vulnerable network resource about the attack patterns.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein building the vulnerability model comprises: extracting one or more activity features from the activity data of the plurality of network resources; and
performing supervised training on a machine-learning model based on the one or more activity features and the initial vulnerability scores.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the machine-learning model is an artificial neural network model.
8. A computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereon which, when executed by one or more processing units of a computing device, cause the one or more processing units to:
generate an initial vulnerability score for each of a plurality of network resources;
collect activity data from the plurality of network resources; train a vulnerability model based on the initial vulnerability scores and the activity data collected from the plurality of network resources;
obtain new activity data of the network resources;
generate a predicted vulnerability score for each of the plurality of network resources by applying the new activity data to the vulnerability model;
identify one or more vulnerable network resources from the plurality of network resources based on the predicted vulnerability scores; and
cause one or more actions to be performed on the one or more vulnerable network resources to increase security of the one or more vulnerable network resources.
9. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, having further computerexecutable instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processing units, cause the one or more processing units to:
identify activity patterns that are unique to the one or more vulnerable network resources as attack patterns; and
inform a user of the one or more vulnerable network resources about the attack patterns.
10. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, having further computerexecutable instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processing units, cause the one or more processing units to access configuration data of the plurality of network resources, wherein the initial vulnerability scores for the plurality of network resource is generated based on the configuration data of the corresponding network resource.
11. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the activity data of the network resources comprise one or more of network traffic data associated with the network resource, or activities occurred on the network resources.
12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the one or more actions comprise causing the one or more vulnerable network resources to be turned off, causing the vulnerable network resources to be taken offline, sending a warning to a user of the one or more vulnerable network resources, or causing the one or more vulnerable network resources to be reconfigured to increase its security.
13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein training the vulnerability model comprises:
extracting one or more activity features from the activity data of the plurality of network resources; and
performing supervised training on a machine-learning model based on the one or more activity features and the initial vulnerability scores.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, the machine-learning model is an artificial neural network model.
15. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the activity data of the network resources comprise process creation data of the network resources.
</claims>
</document>
