<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64C39/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNITED PARCEL SERVICE
</assignee>

<inventors>
GIL, JULIO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70978617
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTONOMOUS DRONE DIAGNOSIS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to systems and methods for autonomously performing and/or facilitating drone diagnostic functions. Prior to a mission of a UAV, an inspection station comprising at least one imaging sensor and at least one directional force sensor may be used to perform a plurality of air worthiness inspections and/or maintenance checks with little to no human intervention. Once the UAV has been determined to be air worthy, it is approved for a subsequent mission.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A system for conducting safety and maintenance inspections on unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), the system comprising: a UAV deployment vehicle; an inspection station comprising at least one imaging sensor configured to collect structuralintegrity data and at least one directional-force sensor to collect flight parameter data; and a computer processing component communicatively coupled to the inspection station, the computer processing component configured to: receive the structural-integrity data from the inspection module and determine if a structural integrity of the UAV exceeds a structural integrity threshold; and receive the flight parameter data from the inspection module and determine if a flight parameter exceeds a flight parameter threshold.
2. The system of claim 1 , further comprising a rail component, wherein the rail component is configured to maintain the UAV in an inspection portion of the rail component, the inspection portion associated with the inspection station.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the rail component is further configured to retrieve an unmanned aerial vehicle at a reco very portion, launch the unmanned aerial vehicle at a launch portion, and traverse the unmanned aerial vehicle from the recovery portion to the inspection portion, and from the inspection portion to the launch portion.
4. The system of claim 1 , wherein the inspection module further comprises at least one location sensor configured to receive an RF signal, and wherein the computer processing component is further configured to determine the location of the inspection station at a particular time, the unmanned aerial vehicle being proximate to the inspection station at the particular time.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the computer processing component is communicatively coupled to the unmanned aerial vehicle and further configured to communicate the location of the inspection module at the particular time to the unmanned aerial vehicle.
6. The system of claim 1 , wherein a first directional-force sensor of the at least one directional-force sensors is configured to collect first flight parameter data, said first flight parameter data comprising a takeoff weight, the takeoff weight comprising a combined weight of the unmanned aerial vehicle and a parcel coupled to the unmanned aerial vehicle, and wherein the computer processing component is further configured to determine if the takeoff weight exceeds a maximum takeoff weight.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one imaging sensor comprises an optical camera configured to capture an image of at least one of a propeller blade of the unmanned aerial vehicle and a portion of the unmanned aerial vehicle body. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the determining if a structural integrity of the unmanned aerial vehicle exceeds a structural integrity threshold comprises comparing the image to a standard, identifying a discrepancy between the image and the standard, and determining whether a parameter of the discrepancy exceeds a threshold.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one imaging sensor comprises an RF camera, the RF camera configured to use one or more RF waves to create an image of one or more components of the unmanned aerial vehicle.
10. The system of claim 1 , wherein the inspection mod ule further compri ses a heat sensor, the heat sensor configured to measure a battery temperature of a battery coupled to the unmanned aerial vehicle. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the computer processing component is further configured to determine if the battery temperature exceeds a predetermined threshold.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the heat sensor comprises an infrared camera.
13. The system of claim 1 , wherein the inspection module further comprises a communication component configured to be communicatively coupled to the unmanned aerial vehicle and collect a self-diagnosis status from the unmanned aerial vehicle.
14. The system of claim 1 , wherein a plurality of directional-force sensor of the at least one directional -force sensors are configured to collect second flight parameter data, said second flight parameter data comprising one or more lift measurements taken during operation of one more lift-causing components, and wherein the computer processing component is further configured to determine if the one or more lift measurements exceeds a minimum lift threshold.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the inspection station additionally comprises a foreign object and debris (FOD) removal component.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the FOD removal component comprises a compressed air blowdown component.
17. A method for conducting safety and maintenance inspections on UAV s, the method comprising: receiving structural integrity data from at least one imaging sensor configured to collect structural integrity data; receiving flight parameter data from at least one directional-force sensor to collect flight parameter data; determining if a structural integrity of the UAV exceeds a structural integrity threshold; and determining if a flight parameter exceeds a flight parameter threshold.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein the method further comprises recovering the UAV on a rail system and traversing the UAV from a recovery portion of the rail system to an inspection station. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the method further comprises, if the structural integrity exceeds the structural integrity threshold and the flight parameter exceeds the flight parameter threshold, communicating to the UAV, an instruction to perform a subsequent mission.
20. One or more non-transitory computer readable media, stored on a computer processing component, that, when executed, cause the computer processing component to perform a method comprising: receiving structural integrity data from at least one imaging sensor configured to collect structural integrity data; receiving flight parameter data from at least one directional -force sensor to collect flight parameter data; determining if a structural integrity of the UAV exceeds a structural integrity threshold; and determining if a flight parameter exceeds a flight parameter threshold.
</claims>
</document>
