<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/11,G06F16/16,G06F16/21,G06F16/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PAAT
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEST, JAMES
PULLIN, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72143898
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DATABASE SCHEMA TRANSFORMATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are disclosed for performing database schema transformations. In one example, a machine learning network is used to identify a plurality of equivalent data substructures in data structures formatted in accordance with different database schemas. A name value type hierarchy (NVTH) is then constructed that includes data types corresponding to one or more of the plurality of equivalent data substructures. Schema transformations can then be performed using the NVTH. In particular, the NVTH may be used to encapsulate data substructures in one of the database schemas and then transform the encapsulated data into an equivalent substructure in another database schema.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A machine learning method, comprising:
providing one or more databases that store data structures formatted in accordance with database schemas, wherein each of the one or more databases includes at least one of the data structures formatted in accordance with at least one of the database schemas;
implementing a machine learning network on a computer system to identify a plurality of equivalent data substructures in the data structures defined by the database schemas; and
constructing a name value type hierarchy (NVTH) that includes data types corresponding to one or more of the plurality of equivalent data substructures identified by the machine learning network.
2. The machine learning method of claim 1 , wherein at least two of the database schemas are defined in different data definition languages and wherein implementing the machine learning network on the computer system includes identifying equivalent data substructures in the data structures formatted in the at least two of the database schemas defined in the different data definition languages.
3. The machine learning method of claim 1 , wherein constructing the NVTH comprises:
presenting user output to a user on the computer system, wherein the user output describes the plurality of equivalent data substructures defined by the database schemas; and
receiving user input from the user on the computer system, wherein the user input semantically describes the data types corresponding to the one or more of the plurality of equivalent data substructures.
4. The machine learning method of claim 1 , further comprising training the machine learning network on the computer system with test data and target results data.
5. The machine learning method of claim 1 , wherein implementing the machine learning network on the computer system, comprises:
identifying data substructures in the data structures that the machine learning network predicts are equivalent; and
receiving user input indicating that one or more of the identified data substructures are the one or more of the plurality of equivalent data substructures.
6. The machine learning method of claim 1 , further comprising:
receiving a first data substructure from a first database, wherein the first data substructure is formatted in accordance with a first database schema of the database schemas and wherein the first data substructure corresponds with a first data type of the one or more data types of the NVTH; and encapsulating the first data substructure in accordance with the first data type of the one or more of the data types of the NVTH.
7. The machine learning method of claim 6, wherein encapsulating the first data substructure in accordance with the first data type of the one or more of the data types of the NVTH comprises:
recognizing that the first data substructure corresponds with the first data type; and
mapping the first data substructure to a data item formatted in accordance with the first data type such that the data item is the encapsulated first data substructure.
8. The machine learning method of claim 6, further comprising transforming the data item into an equivalent second data substructure formatted in accordance with a second database schema of the database schemas, wherein the second data substructure also corresponds with the first data type of the NVTH.
9. The machine learning method of claim 8, wherein transforming the encapsulated first data substructure into the equivalent second data substructure comprises mapping the data item to the equivalent second data substructure formatted in accordance with a second database schema of the database schemas.
10. The machine learning method of claim 1 , further comprising:
receiving a first data substructure from a first database, wherein the first data substructure is formatted in accordance with a first database schema of the database schemas and corresponds to a first data type of the one or more data types of the NVTH;
implementing a function having the first data substructure as an input so as to generate a data item formatted in accordance with the first database schema; and
transforming the data item into an equivalent second data substructure formatted in accordance with a second database schema of the database schemas, wherein the second data substructure also corresponds with the first data type of the NVTH.
11. The machine learning method of claim 10, wherein transforming the data item into the second data substructure formatted in accordance with a second database schema of the database schemas, comprises: encapsulating the data item in accordance with the first data type; and
transforming the encapsulated data item into the equivalent second data substructure formatted in accordance with the second database schema.
12. The schema transformation method of claim 10, further comprising:
the first data substructure stored by the first database is a data output from first manufacturing equipment; and the second data substructure is data input to second manufacturing equipment.
13. A schema transformation method, comprising:
receiving a first data substructure formatted in accordance with a first database schema, wherein the first data substructure corresponds with a first data type of a name value type hierarchy (NVTH); and
transforming a data item based on the first data substructure into an equivalent second data substructure formatted in accordance with a second database schema that is different from the first database schema, wherein the second data substructure corresponds with the first data type of the NVTH.
14. The schema transformation method of claim 13, wherein first database schema is defined in a first data definition language and the second database schema is defined in a second data definition language that is different from the first data definition language.
15. The schema transformation method of claim 13, wherein the data item is the first data substructure so that the first data substructure is transformed into the second data substructure and wherein transforming the first data substructure into the second data substructure comprises:
encapsulating the first data substructure in accordance with the first data type of the NVTH; and transforming the encapsulated first data substructure into the second data substructure formatted in accordance with the second database schema.
16. The schema transformation method of claim 15, wherein encapsulating the first data substructure in accordance with the first data type of the NVTH comprises:
recognizing that the first data substructure corresponds to the first data type of the NVTH; and mapping the first data substructure to a buffer data item formatted in accordance with the first data type such that the buffer data item is the encapsulated first data substructure.
17. The schema transformation method of claim 13, further comprising implementing a function having the first data substructure as an input so as to generate the data item such that the data item is formatted in accordance with the first database schema, wherein transforming the data item into the equivalent second data substructure comprises:
encapsulating the data item in accordance with the first data type; and
transforming the encapsulated data item into the equivalent second data structure.
18. The schema transformation method of claim 13, wherein:
the first data substructure stored is a data output from first manufacturing equipment; and
the second data substructure is a data input for second manufacturing equipment.
19. A computer system configured to be operably associated with one or more databases that store data structures formatted in accordance with database schemas, wherein each of the one or more databases includes at least one of the data structures formatted in accordance with at least one of the database schemas, the computer system comprising:
at least one memory, wherein the at least one memory stores computer-executable instructions;
one or more processors operably associated with the at least one memory, wherein, when executed by the one or more processors, the computer-executable instructions cause the one or more processors to:
implement a machine learning network that identifies a plurality of equivalent data substructures in the data structures defined by the database schemas; and
construct a name value type hierarchy (NVTH) that includes data types corresponding to one or more of the plurality of equivalent data substructures identified by the machine learning network.
20. A computer system, comprising:
at least one memory, wherein the at least one memory stores computer-executable instructions;
one or more processors operably associated with the at least one memory, wherein, when executed by the one or more processors, the computer-executable instructions cause the one or more processors to:
receive a first data substructure formatted in accordance with a first data structure, wherein the first data substructure corresponds with a first data type of a name value type hierarchy (NVTH); and transform a data item based on the first data substructure into an equivalent second data substructure formatted in accordance with a second database schema that is different from the first database schema, wherein the second data substructure corresponds with the first data type of the NVTH.
</claims>
</document>
