<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B47/01,E21B47/04,E21B47/09
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DYNAENERGETICS EUROPE
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCNELIS, LIAM
ZEMLA, ANDREAS
SILVERMAN, SHMUEL
SCHARF, THILO
EITSCHBERGER, CHRISTIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69583809
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR NAVIGATING WITHIN A WELLBORE AND DETERMINING LOCATION IN A WELLBORE
</title>

<abstract>
Devices, systems and methods for navigating and determining the location of downhole oil and gas wellbore tools are disclosed. The devices, systems, and methods may include a drone (300) including an ultrasound transceiver (130, 132) that generates and receives an ultrasonic signal that interacts with the environment external to the drone and detects, utilizing a processor (390) associated therewith, changes the environment external to the drone. The speed and location of the drone may be determined using the processor. Alternatively, an electromagnetic field generator (40, 32, 34) that generates a field that interacts with the environment external to the drone. When the drone moves through the wellbore, the environment external to the drone constantly changes. Based on this changing environment, the speed and location of the drone is determined using the present devices, systems and methods.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A wellbore navigation system comprising: a first ultrasound transceiver and a second ultrasound transceiver, each adapted to transmit an ultrasound signal and receive a return signal;
a processor adapted to monitor the return signals received by the first ultrasound transceiver and the second ultrasound transceiver to identify an anomalous point along the wellbore; and
a power supply selected from the group consisting of a battery and a capacitor, the power supply electrically attached to the processor and the ultrasound transceivers.
2. The wellbore navigation system of claim 1 , wherein the anomalous point along the wellbore comprises a feature selected from the group comprising a casing collar, a wellbore casing, a gap between adjacent wellbore casings, a thread joining the casing collar to the wellbore casing, an anomalous variation in the wellbore casing and a geological formation external to the wellbore casing.
3. The wellbore navigation system of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the processor is adapted to calculate a velocity of the first and second ultrasonic transceivers through the wellbore based on a time difference between identification of the anomalous point by the first ultrasound transceiver and identification of the anomalous point by the second ultrasound transceiver.
4. The wellbore navigation system of claim 3, wherein the processor is adapted to utilize the velocity to determine a position of the navigation system in the wellbore.
5. The wellbore navigation system of any one of claims 1 -4, wherein the processor is adapted to calculate and store a set of topology data based on a plurality of identifications of anomalous points.
6. The wellbore navigation system of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising: an untethered drone assembly sized to travel through a wellbore; and the wellbore navigation system being part of to the untethered drone assembly.
7. An untethered drone for insertion into a wellbore, the untethered drone comprising:
a drone body having a distal end, a proximal end and a body axis that is substantially coaxial with an axis of the wellbore; and
a navigation system comprising:
a first ultrasonic transceiver adapted to transmit a first ultrasound signal and receive a first return signal and a second ultrasonic transceiver adapted to transmit a second ultrasound signal and receive a second return signal, the first and second ultrasonic transceivers are axially displaced with respect to one another along the body axis so as to successively traverse each point of the wellbore;
a processor adapted to monitor the first return signal to identify an anomalous point along the wellbore and to monitor the second return signal to identify the anomalous point along the wellbore; and
a power supply selected from the group consisting of a battery and a capacitor, the power supply electrically attached to the processor and the ultrasound transceivers.
8. The untethered drone of claim 7, wherein the processor is adapted to calculate a parameter from the group consisting of at least one of a velocity of the navigation system through the wellbore, a position of the navigation system in the wellbore and a set of topology data for the wellbore, the parameter calculated based on a time difference between identification of the anomalous point determined from the first return signal and identification of the anomalous point determined from the second return signal.
9. The untethered drone of either claim 7 or claim 8, wherein an alteration of the return signal is the result of a wellbore feature selected from the group comprising a casing collar, a wellbore casing, a gap between adjacent wellbore casings, a thread joining the casing collar to the wellbore casing, an anomalous variation in the wellbore casing and a geological anomaly external to the wellbore casing.
10. The untethered drone of any one of claims 7-9, further comprising: an electronic filter associated with the processor, the filter adapted to remove noise from each return signal.
1 1. A method of determining a location of an untethered drone along a wellbore, the method comprising the steps of:
charging a power supply comprising at least one of a battery and a capacitor,
inserting an untethered drone into the wellbore, the untethered drone having a drone body, a body axis that is substantially coaxial with an axis of the wellbore, a distal end and a proximal end disposed along the body axis;
providing a navigation system as part of the drone body, the navigation system comprising:
a first ultrasonic transceiver and a second ultrasonic transceiver axially displaced with respect to one another along the body axis so as to successively traverse a portion of the wellbore; and
a processor;
initially identifying an anomalous point along the wellbore by transmitting a first ultrasound signal and receiving a first return signal with the first ultrasonic transceiver and processing the first return signal with the processor; and
secondarily identifying the anomalous point along the wellbore by transmitting a second ultrasound signal and receiving a second return signal with the second ultrasonic transceiver and processing the second return signal with the processor.
12. The method of claim 11 , wherein the first ultrasonic transceiver is located adjacent the distal end of the untethered drone and the second ultrasonic transceiver is located adjacent the proximal end of the untethered drone.
13. The method of either one of claim 1 1 or claim 12, further comprising the step of: calculating a parameter from the group consisting of at least one of a velocity of the navigation system through the wellbore, a position of the navigation system in the wellbore and a set of topology data for the wellbore, the parameter calculated based on a time difference between the initial identification and the secondary identification.
14. The method of any one of claims 11 -13, further comprising the step of:
filtering a first and second return signals to remove electronic noise.
15. The method of any one of claims 11 -14, wherein the anomalous point identified in the initially identifying step and the secondarily identifying step is a feature selected from the group comprising a casing collar, a wellbore casing, a gap between adjacent the wellbore casings, a thread joining the casing collar to the wellbore casing, an anomalous variation in the wellbore casing and a geological anomaly external to the wellbore casing.
16. A wellbore navigation system comprising:
a first ultrasonic transceiver adapted to transmit a first ultrasound signal and receive a first return signal and a second ultrasonic transceiver adapted to transmit a second ultrasound signal and receive a second return signal, wherein the first and second ultrasonic transceivers are arranged so as to successively traverse a portion of a wellbore;
a first wire coil wound around a first core and a second wire coil wound around a second core, the first and second cores having high magnetic permeability, the first and second wire coils are arranged so as to successively traverse the portion of the wellbore;
an oscillator circuit connected to each of the first wire coil and the second wire coil, the oscillator circuit generating a first resonant frequency (fl ) on the first coil and a second resonant frequency (f2) on the second coil with each of the first and second resonant frequencies (fl , £2) being a function of physical characteristics of materials immediately external to the respective wire coil;
a processor adapted to monitor the first return signal, to monitor the second return signal, to monitor the first resonant frequency (fl) and to monitor the second resonant frequency (£2); and
a power supply comprising at least one of a battery and a capacitor, the power supply electrically attached to the processor, the oscillator circuit and the ultrasound transceivers.
17. The wellbore navigation system of claim 16, wherein the processor being adapted to utilize one or both of the first return signal and the second return signal to identify an anomalous point along the wellbore, the processor also being adapted to utilize an alteration in one or both of the first resonant frequency (fl) and the second resonant frequency (£2) to detect the anomalous point.
18. The wellbore navigation system of claim 17, wherein the processor is adapted to calculate a parameter from the group consisting of at least one of a velocity of the navigation system through the wellbore, a position of the navigation system in the wellbore and a set of topology data for the wellbore, the parameter calculated based on a time difference between identification of the anomalous point determined from the first return signal and identification of the anomalous point determined from the second return signal.
19. The wellbore navigation system of any one of claims 17 or 18, wherein the anomalous point along the wellbore comprises a feature selected from the group comprising a casing collar, a wellbore casing, a gap between adjacent wellbore casings, a thread joining the casing collar to the wellbore casing, an anomalous variation in the wellbore casing and a geological formation external to the wellbore casing.
</claims>
</document>
